<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
   <head>
      <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="readingview.css"/>
      <title>Myth</title>
   </head>
   <body>
      <h1><span class="myth-label">Myth of:</span><br/>CAENEUS TRANSFORMED INTO A BIRD</h1>
      <div class="text">
         <h2>Text</h2><strong>Caeneus.</strong><p>There was a truce<br/> for many days after this opening fight<br/> while both sides resting,
            laid aside their arms.<br/> A watchful guard patroled the Phrygian walls;<br/> the Grecian
            trenches had their watchful guard.<br/> Then, on a festal day, Achilles gave<br/> the blood of a slain heifer to obtain<br/> the favor of
            Athena for their cause.<br/> The entrails burned
            upon the altar, while<br/> the odor, grateful to the deities,<br/> was mounting to the
            skies. When sacred rites<br/> were done, a banquet for the heroes was<br/> served on their
            tables. There the Grecian chiefs<br/> reclined on couches; while they satisfied<br/>
            themselves with roasted flesh, and banished cares:<br/> and thirst with wine. Nor harp nor
            singing voice<br/> nor long pipe made of boxwood pierced with holes,<br/> delighted them.
            They talked of their own deeds<br/> and valor, all that thrilling night: and even<br/> the
            strength of enemies whom they had met<br/> and overcome. What else could they admit<br/> or
            think of, while the great Achilles spoke<br/> or
            listened to them? But especially<br/> the recent victory over Cygnus held<br/> them ardent. Wonderful it seemed to them<br/> that such a
            youth could be composed of flesh<br/> not penetrable by the sharpest spear;<br/> of flesh
            which blunted even hardened steel,<br/> and never could be wounded. All the Greeks,<br/> and
            even Achilles wondered at the thought.<br/></p>
         <p>Then Nestor said to them: “During your time,<br/>
            Cygnus has been the only man you knew<br/> who
            could despise all weapons and whose flesh<br/> could not be pierced by thrust of sword
            or spear.<br/> But long ago I saw another man<br/> able to bear unharmed a thousand strokes,<br/>
            Caeneus of Thessaly, Caeneus who lived<br/> upon Mt. Othrys. He
            was famed in war<br/> yet, strange to say, by birth he was a woman!”<br/></p>
         <p>Then all expressed the greatest wonderment,<br/> and begged to hear the story of his life.<br/>
            Achilles cried, <span class="hoverable male_dia">“O eloquent old man!<br/> The wisdom of our age! All of us wish<br/> to
               hear, who was this Caeneus? Why was he<br/> changed
               to the other sex? in what campaigns,<br/> and in what wars was he so known to you?<br/>
               Who conquered him, if any ever did?”</span><span class="dia_hover">sp: Achilles<br/>invo: Nestor</span><br/></p>
         <p>The aged man replied to them with care:—<br/> “Although
            my great age is a harm to me,<br/> and many actions of my early days<br/> escape my
            memory; yet, most of them<br/> are well remembered. Nothing of old days,<br/> amid so
            many deeds of war and peace,<br/> can be more firmly fixed upon my mind<br/> than the
            strange story I shall tell of him.<br/></p>
         <p>“If long extent of years made anyone<br/> a witness of
            most wonderful events<br/> and many, truly I may say to you<br/> that I have lived two
            hundred years; and now<br/> have entered my third century.<br/> The daughter of
            Elatus, Caenis, was<br/>
            remarkable for charm—most beautiful<br/> of all Thessalian maidens—many
            sighed<br/> for her in vain through all the neighboring towns<br/> and yours, Achilles, for that was her home.<br/> But
            Peleus did not try to win her love,<br/> for he was either married at
            that time<br/> to your dear mother, or was pledged to her.<br/></p>
         <p>“Caenis never
            became the willing bride<br/> of any suitor; but report declares,<br/> while she was
            walking on a lonely shore,<br/>
            the god of ocean saw and ravished her.<br/> And
            in the joy of that love
            Neptune said,<br/>
            <span class="hoverable male_dia">‘Request of me whatever you
               desire,<br/> and nothing shall deny your dearest wish!’</span><span class="dia_hover">sp: Neptune<br/>invo: Caenis</span>—<br/> the story tells
            us that he made this pledge.<br/> And Caenis said
            to Neptune, ‘The great wrong,<br/> which I have suffered from you justifies<br/> the wonderful
            request that I must make;<br/> I ask that I may never suffer such<br/> an injury
            again. Grant I may be<br/> no longer woman, and I'll ask no
            more.’<br/></p>
         <p>while she was speaking to him, the last words<br/> of her strange prayer were uttered in so
            deep,<br/> in such a manly tone, it seemed indeed<br/> they must be from a man.—That was a fact:<br/>
            Neptune not only had allowed her prayer<br/> but made
            the new man proof against all wounds<br/> of spear or sword. Rejoicing in the gift<br/> he
            went his way as Caeneus Atracides,<br/> spent years in
            every manful exercise,<br/> and roamed the plains of northern
            Thessaly.<br/></p>
      </div>
      <div class="stick"><span class="tag">Tag</span><p class="collapse"><strong>Male:</strong></p><input type="checkbox"/><span class="male_character">descriptors</span><br/><input type="checkbox"/><span class="male_dia">dialogue</span><br/><input type="checkbox"/><span class="male_transform">transformations</span><br/><p class="collapse"><strong>Female:</strong></p><input type="checkbox"/><span class="female_character">descriptors</span><br/><input type="checkbox"/><span class="female_dia">dialogue</span><br/><input type="checkbox"/><span class="female_transform">transformations</span><br/><p class="collapse"><strong>Non-Binary:</strong></p><input type="checkbox"/><span class="nonbinary_character">descriptors</span><br/><input type="checkbox"/><span class="nonbinary_dia">dialogue</span><br/><input type="checkbox"/><span class="nonbinary_transform">transformations</span></div>
   </body>
</html>