<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
   <head>
      <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="readingview.css"/>
      <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="ovid.css"/><script type="text/javascript" src="readingview.js"></script><title>Reading View</title>
   </head>
   <body><!--#include virtual="menu.xhtml" -->
      <table>
         <tr>
            <td><a href="ARACHNE-AND-MINERVA-OVID.xhtml">Arachne and Minerva</a></td>
            <td><a href="Caeneus.xhtml">Caeneus</a></td>
            <td><a href="CERES-AND-PROSERPINA-OVID.xhtml">Ceres and Proserpina</a></td>
            <td><a href="Dryope.xhtml">Dryope</a></td>
            <td><a href="DIANA-AND-ACTEON-OVID.xhtml">Diana and Actaeon</a></td>
            <td><a href="Hercules-and-Achelous.xhtml">Hercules and Achelous</a></td>
            <td><a href="ECHO-AND-NARCISSUS-OVID.xhtml">Echo and Narcissus</a></td>
         </tr>
         <tr>
            <td><a href="HERMAPHRODITIS-OVID-XML.xhtml">Hermaphroditus</a></td>
            <td><a href="JASON-AND-MEDEA-OVID.xhtml">Jason and Medea</a></td>
            <td><a href="Iphis.xhtml">Iphis and Ianthe</a></td>
            <td><a href="PROCNE-AND-PHILOMELA-OVID.xhtml">Tereus and Philomela</a></td>
            <td><a href="KING-MINOS-AND-SCYLLA.xhtml">Minos and Scylla</a></td>
            <td><a href="Scylla-et-Circe.xhtml">Scylla and Circe</a></td>
            <td><a href="THE-DAUGHTERS-OF-MINYAS-OVID.xhtml">Daughters of Minyas</a></td>
         </tr>
      </table>
      <h1><span class="myth-label">Myth:</span><br/>CALLIOPE SINGS OF CERES, PLUTO AND PROSERPINE</h1>
      <p class="highlightguide"><strong>Tip:</strong> Hover over <span class="orangeHighlight">highlighted text</span> to reveal more information about each element!</p>
      <div class="text">
         <h2>Text</h2><strong>Ceres et Proserpina</strong><p>First <span class="hoverable female_character">Ceres broke with crooked plow the
               glebe;<br/> first gave to earth its fruit and wholesome food;<br/> first gave the
               laws;—all things of Ceres came;<br/> of her I sing; and oh, that I could
               tell<br/> her worth in verse; in verse her worth is due.</span><span class="char_hover">matronly</span><br/></p>
         <p>Because he dared to covet heavenly thrones<br/>
            Typhoeus, giant limbs are weighted down<br/> beneath Sicilia's
            Isle—vast in extent—<br/> how often thence he strains and strives to rise?<br/>
            But his right hand Pachynus holds; his legs are pressed<br/> by
            Lilybaeus, Aetna weights his head.<br/>
            <span class="hoverable male_character">Beneath that ponderous mass Typhoeus
               lies,<br/> flat on his back; and spues the sands on high;<br/> and vomits flames from
               his ferocious mouth.<br/> He often strives to push the earth away,<br/> the cities and
               the mountains from his limbs—<br/> by which the lands are shaken. Even the king,<br/>
               that rules the silent shades is made to quake,<br/> for fear the earth may open and the
               ground,<br/> cleft in wide chasms, letting in the day,<br/> may terrify the trembling
               ghosts.</span><span class="char_hover">rage</span> Afraid<br/> of this disaster, that dark despot left<br/> his gloomy
            habitation; carried forth<br/> by soot-black horses, in his gloomy car.<br/></p>
         <p>He circumspectly viewed Sicilia's vast<br/> foundations.—Having well explored
            and proved<br/> no part was shattered; having laid aside<br/> his careful fears, he wandered
            in those parts.<br/></p>
         <p>Him, Venus, Erycina, in her mount<br/> thus witnessed, and embraced
            her winged son,<br/> and said, <span class="hoverable female_dia">‘O
               Cupid! thou who art my son—<br/> my arms, my hand, my strength; take up
               those arms,<br/> by which thou art victorious over all,<br/> and aim thy keenest arrow
               at the heart<br/> of that divinity whom fortune gave<br/> the last award, what time the
               triple realm,<br/> by lot was portioned out.</span><span class="dia_hover">sp: venus<br/>invo: cupid</span><br/></p>
         <p><span class="hoverable female_dia">‘The Gods of Heaven<br/> are overcome by
               thee; and Jupiter,<br/> and all the Deities that swim the deep,<br/> and
               the great ruler of the Water-Gods:<br/> why, then, should Tartarus escape
               our sway—<br/> the third part of the universe at stake—<br/> by which thy mother's
               empire and thy own<br/> may be enlarged according to great need.</span><span class="dia_hover">sp: venus<br/>invo: cupid</span><br/></p>
         <p><span class="hoverable female_dia">‘How shameful is our present lot in
               Heaven,<br/> the powers of love and I alike despised;<br/> for, mark how
               Pallas has renounced my sway,<br/> besides Diana, javelin-hurler—so<br/>
               <span class="hoverable female_character">will Ceres' daughter choose
                  virginity,<br/> if we permit,—that way her hopes incline.<br/> Do thou this goddess
                  Proserpine</span><span class="char_hover">virginal</span>, unite<br/> in marriage to her uncle.
               </span><span class="dia_hover">sp: venus<br/>invo: cupid</span>Venus spoke;—<br/></p>
         <p>Cupid then loosed his quiver, and of all<br/> its many arrows, by his mother's
            aid,<br/> selected one; the keenest of them all;<br/> the least uncertain, surest from the
            string:<br/> and having fixed his knee against the bow,<br/> bent back the flexile horn.—The
            flying shaft<br/> struck Pluto in the breast.<br/></p>
         <p>There is a lake<br/> of greatest depth, not far from Henna's walls,<br/> long
            since called Pergus; and the songs of swans,<br/> that wake
            Cayster, rival not the notes<br/> of swans melodious on its gliding
            waves:<br/> a fringe of trees, encircling as a wreath<br/> its compassed waters, with a
            leafy veil<br/> denies the heat of noon; cool breezes blow<br/> beneath the boughs; the
            humid ground is sprent<br/> with purpling flowers, and spring eternal reigns.<br/></p>
         <p>While <span class="hoverable female_character">Proserpine once dallied in that grove,<br/>
               plucking white lilies and sweet violets,<br/> and while she heaped her basket, while she
               filled<br/> her bosom, in a pretty zeal to strive<br/> beyond all others</span><span class="char_hover">joy</span>;
            she was seen, beloved,<br/> and carried off by
            Pluto—such the haste<br/> of sudden love.
            <br/></p>
         <p>The goddess, in great fear,<br/> called on her mother and on all her friends;<br/> and, in
            her frenzy, as her robe was rent,<br/> down from the upper edge, her gathered flowers<br/>
            fell from her loosened tunic.—<span class="hoverable female_character">This
               mishap,<br/> so perfect was her childish innocence,<br/> increased her virgin
               grief.</span><span class="char_hover">virginal</span>—<br/></p>
         <p>The ravisher<br/> urged on his chariot, and inspired his steeds;<br/> called each by name,
            and on their necks and manes<br/> shook the black-rusted reins. They hastened through<br/>
            deep lakes, and through the pools of Palici,<br/> which boiling upward from
            the ruptured earth<br/> smell of strong sulphur. And they bore him thence<br/> to where the
            sons of Bacchus, who had sailed<br/> from twin-sea Corinth, long
            ago had built<br/> a city's walls between unequal ports.<br/></p>
         <p>Midway between the streams of Cyane<br/> and Arethusa lies a
            moon-like pool,<br/> of silvered narrow horns. There stood the Nymph,<br/> revered above all
            others in that land,<br/> whose name was Cyane. From her that pond<br/> was
            always called. And as she stood, concealed<br/> in middle waves that circled her white
            thighs,<br/> she recognized the God, and said; <span class="hoverable female_dia">‘O thou<br/> shalt go no further, Pluto, thou shalt not<br/>
               by force alone become the son-in-law<br/> of <span class="hoverable female_character">Ceres. It is better to beseech<br/> a mother's aid than drag her
                  child away!</span><span class="char_hover">matronly</span><br/> And this sustains my word, if I may thus<br/> compare
               great things with small, Anapis loved<br/> me also; but he wooed and
               married me<br/> by kind endearments; not by fear, as thou<br/> hast terrified this
               girl.’</span><span class="dia_hover">sp: cyane<br/>invo: pluto</span> So did she speak;<br/>
            <span class="hoverable female_character">and stretching out her arms on either
               side<br/> opposed his way.</span><span class="char_hover">protector</span><br/></p>
         <p>The son of Saturn blazed<br/>
            <span class="hoverable male_character">with uncontrolled rage; and urged his steeds,<br/>
               and hurled his royal scepter in the pool.<br/> Cast with a mighty arm it pierced the
               deeps.<br/></span><span class="char_hover">rage</span> The smitten earth made way to Tartarus;—<br/> it
            opened a wide basin and received<br/> the plunging chariot in the midst.—But now<br/> the
            mournful Cyane began to grieve,<br/> because from her against her
            fountain-rights<br/> the goddess had been torn. <span class="hoverable female_transform">The deepening wound<br/> still rankled in her breast, and she dissolved<br/> in many
               tears, and wasted in those waves<br/> which lately were submissive to her
               rule.</span><span class="trans_hover">physical</span><br/></p>
         <p><span class="hoverable female_transform">So you could see her members waste away:<br/> her
               hones begin to bend; her nails get soft;<br/> her azure hair, her fingers, legs and
               feet,<br/> and every slender part melt in the pool:<br/> so brief the time in which her
               tender limbs<br/> were changed to flowing waves; and after them<br/> her back and
               shoulders, and her sides and breasts<br/> dissolved and vanished into rivulets:<br/> and
               while she changed, the water slowly filled<br/> her faulty veins instead of living
               blood—<br/> and nothing that a hand could hold remained.</span><span class="trans_hover">physical</span><br/></p>
         <p>Now it befell when <span class="hoverable female_character">Proserpine was lost,<br/>
               her anxious mother sought through every land<br/> and every sea in vain. She rested
               not.</span><span class="char_hover">virginal</span><br/> Aurora, when she came with ruddy locks,<br/> might
            never know, nor even Hesperus,<br/> if she might deign to rest.—She lit two
            pines<br/> from Aetna's flames and held one in each hand,<br/> and restless
            bore them through the frosty glooms:<br/> and when serene the day had dimmed the stars<br/>
            she sought her daughter by the rising sun;<br/> and when the sun declined she rested
            not.<br/></p>
         <p>Wearied with labour she began to thirst,<br/> for all this while no streams had cooled her
            lips;<br/> when, as by chance, a cottage thatched with straw<br/> gladdened her sight.
            Thither the goddess went,<br/> and, after knocking at the humble door,<br/> waited until an
            ancient woman came;<br/> who, when she saw the goddess and had heard<br/> her plea for
            water, gave her a sweet drink,<br/> but lately brewed of parched barley-meal;<br/> and while
            the goddess quaffed this drink a boy,<br/> of bold and hard appearance, stood before<br/>
            and laughed and called her greedy. <span class="hoverable female_character">While he
               spoke<br/> the angry goddess sprinkled him with meal,<br/> mixed with the liquid which
               had not been drunk.</span><span class="char_hover">rage</span><br/></p>
         <p><span class="hoverable male_transform">His face grew spotted where the mixture struck,<br/>
               and legs appeared where he had arms before,<br/> a tail was added to his changing
               trunk;<br/> and lest his former strength might cause great harm,<br/> all parts
               contracted till he measured less<br/> than common lizards.</span><span class="trans_hover">physical</span> While the ancient
            dame<br/> wondered and wept and strove for one caress,<br/> the reptile fled and sought a
            lurking place.—<br/> His very name describes him to the eye,<br/> a body starred with many
            coloured spots.<br/></p>
         <p>What lands, what oceans <span class="hoverable female_character">Ceres wandered
               then,<br/> would weary to relate. The bounded world<br/> was narrow for the search.
               Again she passed<br/> through Sicily; again observed all signs;<br/> and
               as she wandered came to Cyane,<br/> who strove to tell where Proserpine had
               gone,<br/> but since her change, had neither mouth nor tongue,<br/> and so was
               mute.</span><span class="char_hover">matronly</span> And yet the Nymph made plain<br/> by certain signs what she desired to
            say:<br/> for on the surface of the waves she showed<br/> a well-known girdle <span class="hoverable female_character">Proserpine had lost,<br/> by chance had dropped it in
               that sacred pool;<br/> which when the goddess recognized, at last,<br/> convinced her
               daughter had been forced from her,</span><span class="char_hover">virginal</span><br/>
            <span class="hoverable female_character">she tore her streaming locks, and frenzied
               struck<br/> her bosom with her palms. And in her rage,<br/> although she wist not where
               her daughter was,<br/> she blamed all countries and cried out against<br/> their base
               ingratitude; and she declared<br/> the world unworthy of the gift of corn:<br/> but
               Sicily before all other lands,<br/> for there was found the token of her
               loss.</span><span class="char_hover">rage</span><br/></p>
         <p><span class="hoverable female_character">For that she broke with savage hand the plows,<br/>
               which there had turned the soil, and full of wrath<br/> leveled in equal death the
               peasant and his ox—<br/> both tillers of the soil—and made decree<br/> that land should
               prove deceptive to the seed,<br/> and rot all planted germs.—That fertile isle,<br/> so
               noted through the world, becomes a waste;<br/> the corn is blighted in the early
               blade;<br/> excessive heat, excessive rain destroys;<br/> the winds destroy, the
               constellations harm;<br/> the greedy birds devour the scattered seeds;<br/> thistles and
               tares and tough weeds choke the wheat.</span><span class="char_hover">rage</span><br/></p>
         <p>“For this the <span class="hoverable female_character">Nymph, Alpheian,
               raised her head<br/> above Elean waves; and having first<br/> pushed back her dripping
               tresses from her brows,<br/> back to her ears, she thus began to speak;<br/></span><span class="char_hover">virginal</span>
            <span class="hoverable female_dia">‘O mother of the virgin, sought
               throughout<br/> the globe! O mother of nutritious fruits!<br/> Let these tremendous
               labours have an end;<br/> do not increase the violence of thy wrath<br/> against the
               Earth, devoted to thy sway,<br/> and not deserving blame; for only force<br/> compelled
               the Earth to open for that wrong.<br/> Think not my supplication is to aid<br/> my
               native country; hither I am come<br/> an alien: Pisa is my native land,<br/> and Elis
               gave me birth. Though I sojourn<br/> a stranger in this isle of Sicily<br/> it yet
               delights me more than all the world.</span><span class="dia_hover">sp: arethusa<br/>invo: ceres</span><br/></p>
         <p><span class="hoverable female_dia">‘I, Arethusa, claim this
               isle my home,<br/> and do implore thee keep my throne secure,<br/> O greatest of the
               Gods! A better hour,<br/> when thou art lightened of thy cares, will come,<br/> and when
               thy countenance again is kind;<br/> and then may I declare what cause removed<br/> me
               from my native place—and through the waves<br/> of such a mighty ocean guided me<br/> to
               find Ortygia.</span><span class="dia_hover">sp: arethusa<br/>invo: ceres</span><br/></p>
         <p><span class="hoverable female_dia">‘Through the porous earth<br/> by
               deepest caverns, I uplift my head<br/> and see unwonted stars. Now it befell,<br/> as I
               was gliding far beneath the world,<br/> where flow dark Stygian streams, I saw<br/> thy
               <span class="hoverable female_character">Proserpine. Although her
                  countenance<br/> betrayed anxiety and grief, a queen She reigned<br/> supremely
                  great in that opacous world<br/> queen consort mighty to the King of
                  Hell.’</span><span class="char_hover">virginal</span></span><span class="dia_hover">sp: arethusa<br/>invo: ceres</span><br/></p>
         <p>Astonished and amazed, as thunderstruck,<br/> when <span class="hoverable female_character">Proserpina's mother heard these words,<br/> long while she stood till great
               bewilderment<br/> gave way to heavy grief. Then to the skies,<br/> ethereal, she mounted
               in her car<br/> and with beclouded face and streaming hair<br/> stood fronting
               Jove, opprobrious.</span><span class="char_hover">rage</span>
            ‘I have come<br/> O Jupiter, a suppliant
            to thee,<br/> both for my own offspring as well as thine.<br/> If thy hard heart deny a
            mother grace,<br/> yet haply as a father thou canst feel<br/> some pity for thy
            daughter; and I pray<br/> thy care for her may not be valued less<br/> because my
            groaning travail brought her forth.—<br/> My long-sought daughter has at last been
            found,<br/> if one can call it, found, when certain loss<br/> more certain has been
            proved; or so may deem<br/> the knowledge of her state.—But I may bear<br/> his rude
            ways, if again he bring her back.<br/></p>
         <p><span class="hoverable female_dia">‘Thy worthy child should not be forced to
               wed<br/> a bandit-chief, nor should my daughter's charms<br/> reward his crime.’</span><span class="dia_hover">sp: ceres<br/>invo: jupiter</span>
            She spoke;—and Jupiter<br/> took up the word; ‘This daughter is a care,<br/> a sacred pledge to me as well as thee;<br/>
            but if it please us to acknowledge truth,<br/> this is a deed of love and injures
            not.<br/> And if, O goddess, thou wilt not oppose,<br/> such law-son cannot compass our
            disgrace:<br/> for though all else were wanting, naught can need<br/>
            Jove's brother, who in fortune yields to none<br/> save me. But if thy
            fixed desire compel<br/> dissent, let <span class="hoverable female_character">Proserpine return to Heaven;<br/> however, subject to the binding law,<br/> if
               there her tongue have never tasted food—<br/> a sure condition, by the Fates
               decreed.’</span><span class="char_hover">virginal</span><br/> he spoke; but <span class="hoverable female_character">Ceres was no less resolved<br/> to lead her daughter
               thence.</span><span class="char_hover">protector</span><br/></p>
         <p>“Not so the Fates<br/> permit.—<span class="hoverable female_character">The virgin,
               thoughtless while she strayed</span><span class="char_hover">virginal</span><br/> among the cultivated
            Stygian fields,<br/> had broken fast. While there she plucked the
            fruit<br/> by bending a pomegranate tree, and plucked,<br/> and chewed seven grains, picked
            from the pallid rind;<br/> and none had seen except Ascalaphus—<br/> him
            Orphne, famed of all Avernian Nymphs,<br/> had brought to birth in some
            infernal cave,<br/> days long ago, from Acheron's embrace—<br/> he saw it,
            <span class="hoverable female_character">and with cruel lips debarred<br/> young
               Proserpine's return. Heaving a sigh,<br/> the Queen of Erebus, indignant
               changed<br/> that witness to an evil bird: she turned<br/> his head, with sprinkled
               Phlegethonian lymph,<br/></span><span class="char_hover">virginal</span>
            <span class="hoverable male_transform">into a beak, and feathers, and great eyes;<br/> his
               head grew larger and his shape, deformed,<br/> was cased in tawny wings; his lengthened
               nails<br/> bent inward;—and his sluggish arms<br/> as wings can hardly move. So he
               became<br/> the vilest bird; a messenger of grief;<br/> the lazy owl; sad omen to
               mankind.</span><span class="trans_hover">physical</span><br/></p>
         <p>The telltale's punishment was only just;<br/> O <span class="hoverable female_character">Siren Maids but wherefore thus have ye<br/> the feet and plumes of birds, although
               remain<br/> your virgin features?</span><span class="char_hover">virginal</span>Is it from the day<br/> when <span class="hoverable female_character">Proserpina gathered vernal flowers;<br/> because ye
               mingled with her chosen friends?<br/> And after she was lost, in vain ye sought<br/>
               through all the world; and wished for wings to waft<br/> you over the great deep, that
               soon the sea<br/> might feel your great concern.—The Gods were kind:</span><span class="char_hover">virginal</span><br/>
            <span class="hoverable male_transform">ye saw your limbs grow yellow, with a growth<br/>
               of sudden-sprouting feathers</span><span class="trans_hover">physical</span>; but because<br/> your melodies that gently
            charm the ear,<br/> besides the <span class="hoverable female_character">glory of your
               speech, might lose<br/> the blessing, of a tongue, your virgin face<br/> and human voice
               remained.</span><span class="char_hover">virginal</span><br/></p>
         <p>“But Jupiter,<br/> the mediator of these rival claims,<br/> urged by his brother
            and his grieving sister,<br/> divided the long year in equal parts.<br/> Now Proserpina, <span class="hoverable female_transform">as a
               Deity</span><span class="trans_hover">social</span>,<br/> of equal merit, in two kingdoms reigns:—<br/> for six months
            with her mother she abides,<br/> and six months with her husband.—<span class="hoverable _transform">Both her mind<br/> and her appearance quickly were transformed</span><span class="trans_hover">physical</span>;<br/>
            <span class="hoverable _character">for she who seemed so sad in Pluto's eyes,<br/> now as
               a goddess beams in joyful smiles;<br/> so, when the sun obscured by watery mist<br/>
               conquers the clouds, it shines in splendour forth.<br/></span><span class="char_hover">joy</span></p>
      </div>
      <div class="stick"><span class="tag">Tag</span><p class="removespace"><strong>Male:</strong></p><input type="checkbox" value="male_character"/><span class="male_character">descriptors</span><br/><input type="checkbox" value="male_dia"/><span class="male_dia">dialogue</span><br/><input type="checkbox" value="male_transform"/><span class="male_transform">transformations</span><br/><p class="removespace"><strong>Female:</strong></p><input type="checkbox" value="female_character"/><span class="female_character">descriptors</span><br/><input type="checkbox" value="female_dia"/><span class="female_dia">dialogue</span><br/><input type="checkbox" value="female_transform"/><span class="female_transform">transformations</span><br/><p class="removespace"><strong>Non-Binary:</strong></p><input type="checkbox" value="nonbinary_character"/><span class="nonbinary_character">descriptors</span><br/><input type="checkbox" value="nonbinary_dia"/><span class="nonbinary_dia">dialogue</span><br/><input type="checkbox" value="nonbinary_transform"/><span class="nonbinary_transform">transformations</span></div>
   </body>
</html>