<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
   <head>
      <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="readingview.css"/>
      <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="ovid.css"/><script type="text/javascript" src="readingview.js"></script><title>Reading View</title>
   </head>
   <body><!--#include virtual="menu.xhtml" -->
      <table>
         <tr>
            <td><a href="ARACHNE-AND-MINERVA-OVID.xhtml">Arachne and Minerva</a></td>
            <td><a href="Caeneus.xhtml">Caeneus</a></td>
            <td><a href="CERES-AND-PROSERPINA-OVID.xhtml">Ceres and Proserpina</a></td>
            <td><a href="Dryope.xhtml">Dryope</a></td>
            <td><a href="DIANA-AND-ACTEON-OVID.xhtml">Diana and Actaeon</a></td>
            <td><a href="Hercules-and-Achelous.xhtml">Hercules and Achelous</a></td>
            <td><a href="ECHO-AND-NARCISSUS-OVID.xhtml">Echo and Narcissus</a></td>
         </tr>
         <tr>
            <td><a href="HERMAPHRODITIS-OVID-XML.xhtml">Hermaphroditus</a></td>
            <td><a href="JASON-AND-MEDEA-OVID.xhtml">Jason and Medea</a></td>
            <td><a href="Iphis.xhtml">Iphis and Ianthe</a></td>
            <td><a href="PROCNE-AND-PHILOMELA-OVID.xhtml">Tereus and Philomela</a></td>
            <td><a href="KING-MINOS-AND-SCYLLA.xhtml">Minos and Scylla</a></td>
            <td><a href="Scylla-et-Circe.xhtml">Scylla and Circe</a></td>
            <td><a href="THE-DAUGHTERS-OF-MINYAS-OVID.xhtml">Daughters of Minyas</a></td>
         </tr>
      </table>
      <h1><span class="myth-label">Myth:</span><br/>ACTAEON THE HOUSE OF CADMUS</h1>
      <p class="highlightguide"><strong>Tip:</strong> Hover over <span class="orangeHighlight">highlighted text</span> to reveal more information about each element!</p>
      <div class="text">
         <h2>Text</h2><strong>Actaeon.</strong><p>Now Thebes is founded, who can deem thy days<br/> unhappy in shine exile,
            Cadmus? Thou,<br/> the son-in-law of Mars and
            Venus; thou,<br/> whose glorious wife has borne to shine embrace<br/>
            daughters and sons? And thy grandchildren join<br/> around thee, almost grown to man's
            estate.—<br/> nor should we say, “He leads a
            happy life,”<br/> Till after death the funeral rites are paid.<br/></p>
         <p>Thy grandson, Cadmus, was the first to cast<br/> thy dear felicity in sorrow's
            gloom.<br/> Oh, it was pitiful to witness him,<br/> his horns outbranching from his
            forehead, chased<br/> by dogs that panted for their master's blood!<br/> If thou shouldst
            well inquire it will be shown<br/> his sorrow was the crime of Fortune—not<br/> his
            guilt—for who maintains mistakes are crimes?<br/></p>
         <p>Upon a mountain stained with slaughtered game,<br/> the young Hyantian stood. Already
            day,<br/> increasing to meridian, made decrease<br/> the flitting shadows, and the hot sun
            shone<br/> betwixt extremes in equal distance. Such<br/> the hour, when speaking to his
            fellow friends,<br/> the while they wandered by those lonely haunts,<br/>
            Actaeon of Hyantis kindly thus;<br/></p>
         <p>“Our nets and steel are stained with slaughtered
            game,<br/> the day has filled its complement of sport;<br/> now, when Aurora in her
            saffron car<br/> brings back the light of day, we may again<br/> repair to haunts of
            sport. Now Phoebus hangs<br/> in middle sky, cleaving the fields with heat.—<br/> enough
            of toil; take down the knotted nets.”—<br/> all did as he commanded; and they
            sought<br/> their needed rest.<br/></p>
         <p>There is a valley called<br/>
            Gargaphia; sacred to Diana, dense<br/> with pine trees and the pointed
            cypress, where,<br/> deep in the woods that fringed the valley's edge,<br/> was hollowed in
            frail sandstone and the soft<br/> white pumice of the hills an arch, so true<br/> it seemed
            the art of man; for Nature's touch<br/> ingenious had so fairly wrought the stone,<br/>
            making the entrance of a grotto cool.<br/> Upon the right a limpid fountain ran,<br/> and
            babbled, as its lucid channel spread<br/> into a clear pool edged with tender grass.<br/>
            Here, when a-wearied with exciting sport,<br/> the <span class="hoverable female_character">Sylvan goddess loved to come and bathe<br/> her virgin beauty in the
               crystal pool.</span><span class="char_hover">virginal</span><br/></p>
         <p><span class="hoverable female_character">After Diana entered with her nymphs,<br/> she
               gave her javelin, quiver and her bow<br/> to one accustomed to the care of
               arms;</span><span class="char_hover">protector</span><br/> she gave her mantle to another nymph<br/> who stood near by her
            as she took it off;<br/> two others loosed the sandals from her feet;<br/> but
            Crocale, the daughter of Ismenus,<br/>
            <span class="hoverable female_character">more skillful than her sisters, gathered
               up<br/> the goddess' scattered tresses in a knot;—<br/> her own were loosely wantoned on
               the breeze.</span><span class="char_hover">matronly</span><br/></p>
         <p>Then in their ample urns dipt up the wave<br/> and poured it forth, the cloud-nymph
            Nephele,<br/> the nymph of crystal pools called Hyale,<br/>
            the rain-drop Rhanis, Psecas of the dews,<br/> and
            Phyale the guardian of their urns.<br/> And while they bathed
            Diana in their streams,<br/>
            Actaeon, wandering through the unknown woods,<br/> entered the
            precincts of that sacred grove;<br/> with steps uncertain wandered he as fate<br/> directed,
            for his sport must wait till morn.—<br/> soon as he entered where the clear springs
            welled<br/> or trickled from the grotto's walls, <span class="hoverable female_character">the nymphs,<br/> now ready for the bath, beheld the man,<br/> smote
               on their breasts, and made the woods resound,<br/> suddenly shrieking.</span><span class="char_hover">virginal</span>
            <span class="hoverable female_character">Quickly gathered they<br/> to shield
               Diana with their naked forms,</span><span class="char_hover">protector</span>
            <span class="hoverable female_character">but she<br/> stood head and shoulders taller than
               her guards.—<br/> as clouds bright-tinted by the slanting sun,<br/> or purple-dyed
               Aurora, so appeared<br/> Diana's countenance when she was seen.<br/></span><span class="char_hover">rage</span></p>
         <p>Oh, how she wished her arrows were at hand!<br/> But only having water, this she took<br/>
            and dashed it on his manly countenance,<br/> and sprinkled with the avenging stream his
            hair,<br/> and said these words, presage of future woe;<br/>
            “Go tell it, if your tongue can tell the tale,<br/>
            your bold eyes saw me stripped of all my robes.”<br/>
            <span class="hoverable _transform"> No more she threatened, but she fixed the horns<br/> of a great
               stag firm on his sprinkled brows;<br/> she lengthened out his neck; she made his
               ears<br/> sharp at the top; she changed his hands and feet;<br/> made long legs of his
               arms, and covered him<br/> with dappled hair—his courage turned to
               fear.</span><span class="trans_hover">physical</span><br/> The brave son of Autonoe took to flight,<br/> and marveled that he
            sped so swiftly on.—<br/></p>
         <p>he saw his horns reflected in a stream<br/> and would have said, “Ah, wretched me!” but now<br/> he had no voice, and he could only
            groan:<br/> large tears ran trickling down his face, transformed<br/> in every feature.—Yet,
            as clear remained<br/> his understanding, and he wondered what<br/> he should attempt to do:
            should he return<br/> to his ancestral palace, or plunge deep<br/> in vast vacuities of
            forest wilds?<br/> Fear made him hesitate to trust the woods,<br/> and shame deterred him
            from his homeward way.<br/></p>
         <p>While doubting thus his dogs espied him there:<br/> first Blackfoot and the
            sharp nosed Tracer raised<br/> the signal: Tracer of the Gnossian
            breed,<br/> and Blackfoot of the Spartan: swift as wind<br/> the others followed.
            Glutton, Quicksight, Surefoot,<br/> three dogs of
            Arcady; then valiant Killbuck,<br/>
            Tempest, fierce Hunter, and the rapid Wingfoot;<br/>
            sharp-scented Chaser, and Woodranger wounded<br/> so lately by a
            wild boar; savage Wildwood,<br/> the wolf-begot with Shepherdess
            the cow-dog;<br/> and ravenous Harpy followed by her twin whelps;<br/> and
            thin-girt Ladon chosen from Sicyonia;<br/> racer and Barker,
            brindled Spot and Tiger;<br/> sturdy old Stout and white haired
            Blanche and black Smut<br/> lusty big Lacon,
            trusty Storm and Quickfoot;<br/> active young Wolfet
            and her Cyprian brother<br/> black headed Snap, blazed with a patch of white
            hair<br/> from forehead to his muzzle; swarthy Blackcoat<br/> and shaggy
            Bristle, Towser and Wildtooth,<br/> his sire of
            Dicte and his dam of Lacon;<br/> and yelping
            Babbler: these and others, more<br/> than patience leads us to recount or
            name.<br/></p>
         <p>All eager for their prey the pack surmount<br/> rocks, cliffs and crags, precipitous—where
            paths<br/> are steep, where roads are none. He flies by routes<br/> so oft pursued but now,
            alas, his flight<br/> is from his own!—He would have cried, “Behold<br/> your master!—It is I—Actaeon!” Words<br/> refused his
            will. The yelping pack pressed on.<br/> First Blackmane seized and tore his master's
            back,<br/> Savage the next, then Rover's teeth were clinched<br/> deep in his
            shoulder.—These, though tardy out,<br/> cut through a by-path and arriving first<br/> clung
            to their master till the pack came up.<br/></p>
         <p>The whole pack fastened on their master's flesh<br/> till place was none for others. Groaning
            he<br/> made frightful sounds that not the human voice<br/> could utter nor the stag; and
            filled the hills<br/> with dismal moans; and as a suppliant fell<br/> down to the ground
            upon his trembling knees;<br/> and turned his stricken eyes on his own dogs,<br/> entreating
            them to spare him from their fangs.<br/></p>
         <p>But his companions, witless of his plight,<br/> urged on the swift pack with their hunting
            cries.<br/> They sought Actaeon and they vainly called,<br/>
            “Actaeon! Hi! Actaeon!” just as though<br/> he was away from them.
            Each time they called<br/> he turned his head. And when they chided him,<br/> whose
            indolence denied the joys of sport,<br/> how much he wished an indolent desire<br/> had
            haply held him from his ravenous pack.<br/> Oh, how much;better 'tis to see the hunt,<br/>
            and the fierce dogs, than feel their savage deeds!<br/> They gathered round him, and they
            fixed their snouts<br/> deep in his flesh: tore him to pieces, he<br/> whose features only
            as a stag appeared.—<br/> 'Tis said <span class="hoverable female_character">Diana's fury
               raged with none<br/> abatement till the torn flesh ceased to live.</span><span class="char_hover">rage</span><br/></p>
      </div>
      <div class="stick"><span class="tag">Tag</span><p class="removespace"><strong>Male:</strong></p><input type="checkbox" value="male_character"/><span class="male_character">descriptors</span><br/><input type="checkbox" value="male_dia"/><span class="male_dia">dialogue</span><br/><input type="checkbox" value="male_transform"/><span class="male_transform">transformations</span><br/><p class="removespace"><strong>Female:</strong></p><input type="checkbox" value="female_character"/><span class="female_character">descriptors</span><br/><input type="checkbox" value="female_dia"/><span class="female_dia">dialogue</span><br/><input type="checkbox" value="female_transform"/><span class="female_transform">transformations</span><br/><p class="removespace"><strong>Non-Binary:</strong></p><input type="checkbox" value="nonbinary_character"/><span class="nonbinary_character">descriptors</span><br/><input type="checkbox" value="nonbinary_dia"/><span class="nonbinary_dia">dialogue</span><br/><input type="checkbox" value="nonbinary_transform"/><span class="nonbinary_transform">transformations</span></div>
   </body>
</html>