<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
   <head>
      <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="readingview.css"/>
      <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="ovid.css"/><script type="text/javascript" src="readingview.js"></script><title>Reading View</title>
   </head>
   <body><!--#include virtual="menu.xhtml" -->
      <table>
         <tr>
            <td><a href="ARACHNE-AND-MINERVA-OVID.xhtml">Arachne and Minerva</a></td>
            <td><a href="Caeneus.xhtml">Caeneus</a></td>
            <td><a href="CERES-AND-PROSERPINA-OVID.xhtml">Ceres and Proserpina</a></td>
            <td><a href="Dryope.xhtml">Dryope</a></td>
            <td><a href="DIANA-AND-ACTEON-OVID.xhtml">Diana and Actaeon</a></td>
            <td><a href="Hercules-and-Achelous.xhtml">Hercules and Achelous</a></td>
            <td><a href="ECHO-AND-NARCISSUS-OVID.xhtml">Echo and Narcissus</a></td>
         </tr>
         <tr>
            <td><a href="HERMAPHRODITIS-OVID-XML.xhtml">Hermaphroditus</a></td>
            <td><a href="JASON-AND-MEDEA-OVID.xhtml">Jason and Medea</a></td>
            <td><a href="Iphis.xhtml">Iphis and Ianthe</a></td>
            <td><a href="PROCNE-AND-PHILOMELA-OVID.xhtml">Tereus and Philomela</a></td>
            <td><a href="KING-MINOS-AND-SCYLLA.xhtml">Minos and Scylla</a></td>
            <td><a href="Scylla-et-Circe.xhtml">Scylla and Circe</a></td>
            <td><a href="THE-DAUGHTERS-OF-MINYAS-OVID.xhtml">Daughters of Minyas</a></td>
         </tr>
      </table>
      <h1><span class="myth-label">Myth:</span><br/>DRYOPE</h1>
      <p class="highlightguide"><strong>Tip:</strong> Hover over <span class="orangeHighlight">highlighted text</span> to reveal more information about each element!</p>
      <div class="text">
         <h2>Text</h2><strong></strong><p>“O my dear mother, <span class="hoverable female_transform">if you weep because<br/> of her who was your servant, now
               transformed<br/> into a weasel,</span><span class="trans_hover">physical</span> how can you support<br/> the true
            narration of my sister's fate;<br/> which I must tell to you, although <span class="hoverable female_character">my tears<br/> and sorrows hinder and forbid my
               speech</span><span class="char_hover">despair</span>?<br/></p>
         <p>“Most beautiful of all Oechalian maids,<br/> was
            Dryope, her mother's only child,<br/> for you
            must know I am the daughter of<br/> my father's second wife. She is not now<br/> a maid;
            because, through violence of him<br/> who rules at Delphi and at
            Delos, she<br/> was taken by Andraemon, who since
            then<br/> has been accounted happy in his wife.<br/></p>
         <p>“There is a lake surrounded by sweet lawns,<br/>
            encircling beauties, where the upper slope<br/> is crowned with myrtles in fair sunny
            groves.<br/> Without a thought of danger Dryope<br/> in worship one day went to gather flowers,<br/> (who hears, has
            greater cause to be indignant)<br/> delightful garlands, for the <span class="hoverable female_character">water-nymphs</span><span class="char_hover">virginal</span>,<br/> and, <span class="hoverable female_character">in her bosom, carried her dear son,<br/> not yet
               a year old, whom she fed for love</span><span class="char_hover">matronly</span>.<br/> Not far from that dream-lake, in
            moisture grew<br/> a lotus, beautiful in purple bloom,<br/> the blossoms promising its
            fruit was near.<br/></p>
         <p>“At play with her sweet infant, Dryope<br/> plucked them as toys for him. I, too, was
            there,<br/> eagerly, also, I put forth my hand,<br/> and was just ready to secure a
            spray,<br/> when I was startled by some drops of blood<br/> down-falling from the
            blossoms which were plucked;<br/> and even the trembling branches shook in
            dread.<br/></p>
         <p>“Who wills, the truth of this may learn from all<br/>
            quaint people of that land, who still relate<br/> the Story of Nymph Lotis.
            She, they say,<br/> while flying from the
            lust of Priapus,<br/>
            <span class="hoverable female_transform">was transformed quickly from her human
               shape,<br/> into this tree,</span><span class="trans_hover">physical</span> though she has kept her
            name.<br/></p>
         <p>“But ignorant of all this, Dryope,<br/> alarmed, decided she must now return;<br/> so, having
            first adored the <span class="hoverable female_character">hallowed
               nymphs</span><span class="char_hover">virginal</span>,<br/> upright she stood, and would have moved away,<br/> but both
            her feet were tangled in a root.<br/> There, as she struggled in its tightening
            hold,<br/> she could move nothing save her upper parts;<br/> and growing from that root,
            live bark began<br/> to gather slowly upward from the ground,<br/> spreading around her,
            till it touched her loins:<br/> in terror when she saw the clinging growth,<br/> she
            would have torn her hair out by the roots,<br/> but, when she clutched at it, her hands
            were filled<br/> with lotus leaves grown up from her changed head.<br/></p>
         <p>“Alas, her little son, Amphissos, felt<br/> his mother's bosom harden to his touch,<br/> and
            no life-stream refreshed his eager lips.<br/>
            <span class="hoverable female_character">And while I saw your cruel destiny,<br/> O
               my dear sister! and could give no help,<br/> I clung to your loved body and
               around<br/> the growing trunk and branches, hoping so<br/> to stop their evil
               growth; and I confess,<br/> endeavored there to hide beneath the
               bark.</span><span class="char_hover">despair</span><br/></p>
         <p>“And, oh! Andraemon
            and her father, then<br/> appeared to me while they were sadly seeking<br/> for
            Dryope: so there I had to show<br/>
            <span class="hoverable female_transform">the lotus as it covered her, and they<br/>
               gave kisses to the warm wood, and prostrate fell<br/> upon the ground, and clung to
               growing roots<br/> of their new darling tree, transformed from
               her</span><span class="trans_hover">physical</span>.—<br/> Dear sister, there was nothing of yourself<br/> remaining but
            your face; and I could see<br/> your tears drop slowly on the trembling leaves<br/>
            which had so marvellously grown on you;<br/> and while your lips remained uncovered,
            all<br/> the air surrounding, echoed your complaint:—<br/></p>
         <p>“If oaths of
            wretched women can have force,<br/> I swear I have not merited this fate!<br/>
            Though innocent, to suffer punishment!<br/> And if one word of my complaint is
            false,<br/> I pray I may soon wither, and my leaves<br/> fall from me as in blight,
            and let the axe<br/> devote me, wretched to the flames. But take<br/> this infant
            from my branches to a nurse;<br/> and let him often play beneath his tree,—<br/> his
            mother always. Let him drink his milk<br/> beneath my shade. When he has learned to
            talk<br/> let him salute me, and in sorrow say<br/>
            “In this tree-trunk my mother is
            concealed.”<br/> O, let him dread the fate that lurks in ponds,<br/> and
            let him often play beneath his tree,—<br/> and let him be persuaded every shrub<br/>
            contains the body of a goddess. — Ah!<br/> Farewell my husband,—sister, — and
            farewell<br/> my father! If my love remain in you<br/> remember to protect my life
            from harm,<br/> so that the pruning-knife may never clip<br/> my branches, and
            protect my foliage from<br/> the browsing sheep.<br/></p>
         <p>“<span class="hoverable female_character">I cannot stoop to you;<br/> 0h, if you love
               me, lift your lips to mine,<br/> and let me kiss you, if but once again,<br/>
               before this growing lotus covers me.<br/> Lift up my darling infant to my
               lips.</span><span class="char_hover">matronly</span><br/>
            <span class="hoverable female_character">How can I hope to say much more to
               you?<br/> The new bark now is creeping up my neck,<br/> and creeping downward
               from my covered brow!<br/> Ah, do not close my live eyes with your hands;<br/>
               there is no need of it, for growing bark<br/> will spread and darken them before
               I die</span><span class="char_hover">despair</span>!’<br/> Such were the last words her poor smothered
            lips<br/> could utter; <span class="hoverable female_transform">for she was so quickly
               changed;<br/> and long thereafter the new branches kept<br/> the warmth of her lost
               body, so transformed</span><span class="trans_hover">physical</span>.”<br/></p>
      </div>
      <div class="stick"><span class="tag">Tag</span><p class="removespace"><strong>Male:</strong></p><input type="checkbox" value="male_character"/><span class="male_character">descriptors</span><br/><input type="checkbox" value="male_dia"/><span class="male_dia">dialogue</span><br/><input type="checkbox" value="male_transform"/><span class="male_transform">transformations</span><br/><p class="removespace"><strong>Female:</strong></p><input type="checkbox" value="female_character"/><span class="female_character">descriptors</span><br/><input type="checkbox" value="female_dia"/><span class="female_dia">dialogue</span><br/><input type="checkbox" value="female_transform"/><span class="female_transform">transformations</span><br/><p class="removespace"><strong>Non-Binary:</strong></p><input type="checkbox" value="nonbinary_character"/><span class="nonbinary_character">descriptors</span><br/><input type="checkbox" value="nonbinary_dia"/><span class="nonbinary_dia">dialogue</span><br/><input type="checkbox" value="nonbinary_transform"/><span class="nonbinary_transform">transformations</span></div>
   </body>
</html>