<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
   <head>
      <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="readingview.css"/>
      <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="ovid.css"/><script type="text/javascript" src="readingview.js"></script><title>Reading View</title>
   </head>
   <body><!--#include virtual="menu.xhtml" -->
      <table>
         <tr>
            <td><a href="ARACHNE-AND-MINERVA-OVID.xhtml">Arachne and Minerva</a></td>
            <td><a href="Caeneus.xhtml">Caeneus</a></td>
            <td><a href="CERES-AND-PROSERPINA-OVID.xhtml">Ceres and Proserpina</a></td>
            <td><a href="Dryope.xhtml">Dryope</a></td>
            <td><a href="DIANA-AND-ACTEON-OVID.xhtml">Diana and Actaeon</a></td>
            <td><a href="Hercules-and-Achelous.xhtml">Hercules and Achelous</a></td>
            <td><a href="ECHO-AND-NARCISSUS-OVID.xhtml">Echo and Narcissus</a></td>
         </tr>
         <tr>
            <td><a href="HERMAPHRODITIS-OVID-XML.xhtml">Hermaphroditus</a></td>
            <td><a href="JASON-AND-MEDEA-OVID.xhtml">Jason and Medea</a></td>
            <td><a href="Iphis.xhtml">Iphis and Ianthe</a></td>
            <td><a href="PROCNE-AND-PHILOMELA-OVID.xhtml">Tereus and Philomela</a></td>
            <td><a href="KING-MINOS-AND-SCYLLA.xhtml">Minos and Scylla</a></td>
            <td><a href="Scylla-et-Circe.xhtml">Scylla and Circe</a></td>
            <td><a href="THE-DAUGHTERS-OF-MINYAS-OVID.xhtml">Daughters of Minyas</a></td>
         </tr>
      </table>
      <h1><span class="myth-label">Myth:</span><br/>NARCISSUS AND ECHOTHE HOUSE OF CADMUS</h1>
      <p class="highlightguide"><strong>Tip:</strong> Hover over <span class="orangeHighlight">highlighted text</span> to reveal more information about each element!</p>
      <div class="text">
         <h2>Text</h2><strong>NARCISSUS</strong><p>Tiresias' fame of prophecy was spread<br/> through all the cities of
            Aonia,<br/> for his unerring answers unto all<br/> who listened to his
            words. And first of those<br/> that harkened to his fateful prophecies,<br/> a lovely Nymph,
            named Liriope, came<br/> with her dear son, who then fifteen, might seem<br/> a
            man or boy—he who was born to her<br/> upon the green merge of Cephissus'
            stream—<br/> that mighty River-God whom she declared<br/> the father of her boy.—<br/></p>
         <p>she questioned him.<br/> Imploring him to tell her if her son,<br/> unequalled for his
            beauty, whom she called<br/>
            Narcissus, might attain a ripe old age.<br/> To which
            the blind seer answered in these words,<br/>
            “If he but fail to recognize himself,<br/> a long life
            he may have, beneath the sun,”—<br/> so, frivolous the prophet's words
            appeared;<br/> and yet the event, the manner of his death,<br/> the strange delusion of his
            frenzied love, confirmed it.<br/>
            </p>
         <p>Three times five years so were passed.<br/> Another five-years, and the lad might seem<br/> a
            young man or a boy. And many a youth,<br/> and many a damsel
            sought to gain his love;<br/> but such his mood and spirit and his pride,<br/> none
            gained his favour.<br/></p>
         <p>Once a noisy <span class="hoverable female_character">Nymph,<br/> (who never held her
               tongue when others spoke,<br/> who never spoke till others had begun)<br/> mocking Echo,
               spied him as he drove,<br/> in his delusive nets, some timid
               stags.—</span><span class="char_hover">cocky</span><br/></p>
         <p>for Echo was a Nymph, in olden time,—<br/> and, more than vapid
            sound,—possessed a form:<br/> and she was then deprived the use of speech,<br/> except to
            babble and repeat the words,<br/> once spoken, over and over.<br/>
            </p>
         <p><span class="hoverable female_character">Juno confused<br/> her silly tongue, because she
               often held<br/> that glorious goddess with her endless tales,<br/> till many a hapless
               Nymph, from Jove's embrace,<br/> had made escape adown a mountain.</span><span class="char_hover">jealous</span> But<br/>
            for this, the goddess might have caught them. Thus<br/> the glorious Juno, when she knew her
            guile;<br/></p>
         <p>“Your tongue, so freely wagged at my expense,<br/> shall
            be of little use; your endless voice,<br/> much shorter than your tongue.” At once
            the Nymph<br/> was stricken as the goddess had decreed;—<br/> and, ever since, she only
            mocks the sounds<br/> of others' voices, or, perchance, returns<br/> their final words.<br/>
            </p>
         <p>One day, when she observed<br/>
            Narcissus wandering in the pathless woods,<br/>
            she loved him and she followed him, with soft<br/>
            and stealthy tread.—The more she followed him<br/> the hotter did she burn, as when the
            flame<br/> flares upward from the sulphur on the torch.<br/></p>
         <p>Oh, how she longed to make her passion known!<br/> To
            plead in soft entreaty! to implore his love!<br/> But now, till others have
            begun, a mute<br/> of Nature she must be. She cannot choose<br/> but wait the moment when
            his voice may give<br/> to her an answer.<br/></p>
         <p>Presently the youth,<br/> by chance divided from his trusted friends,<br/> cries loudly, “Who is here?” and Echo, “Here!”<br/> Replies. Amazed, he casts his eyes around,<br/> and calls with louder
            voice, “Come here!”
            “Come here!”<br/> She calls the youth who calls.—He turns to
            see<br/> who calls him and, beholding naught exclaims,<br/>
            “Avoid me not!”
            “Avoid me not!” returns.<br/></p>
         <p>He tries again, again, and is deceived<br/> by this alternate voice, and calls aloud;<br/>
            “Oh let us come together!” Echo cries,<br/>
            “Oh let us come together!”
            Never sound<br/> seemed sweeter to the Nymph, and
            from the woods<br/> she hastens in accordance with her words,<br/> and strives to wind
            her arms around his neck.<br/> He flies from her and as he leaves her says,<br/>
            “Take off your hands! you shall not fold your
            arms<br/> around me. Better death than such a one<br/> should ever caress me!”
            Naught she answers save,<br/>
            “Caress me!”<br/></p>
         <p>Thus rejected she lies hid<br/> in the deep woods, hiding her blushing face<br/> with the
            green leaves; and ever after lives<br/> concealed in lonely caverns in the hills.<br/>
            </p>
         <p>But her great love increases with neglect;<br/> her miserable body wastes away,<br/> wakeful
            with sorrows; leanness shrivels up<br/> her skin, and all her lovely features melt,<br/> as
            if dissolved upon the wafting winds—<br/> nothing remains except her bones and voice—<br/>
            her voice continues, in the wilderness;<br/> her bones have turned to stone. She lies
            concealed<br/> in the wild woods, nor is she ever seen<br/> on lonely mountain range; for,
            though we hear<br/> her calling in the hills, 'tis but a voice,<br/> a voice that lives,
            that lives among the hills.<br/></p>
         <p>Thus he deceived the Nymph and many more,<br/> sprung from the mountains or the sparkling
            waves;<br/> and thus he slighted many an amorous youth.—<br/> and therefore, some one whom
            he once despised,<br/> lifting his hands to Heaven, implored the Gods,<br/>
            <span class="hoverable _dia">“If he should love deny him what he
               loves!”</span><span class="dia_hover">sp: narcissus<br/>invo: nemesis</span><br/> and as the prayer was uttered it was heard<br/> by
            Nemesis, who granted her assent.<br/>
            </p>
         <p>There was a fountain silver-clear and bright,<br/> which neither shepherds nor the wild
            she-goats,<br/> that range the hills, nor any cattle's mouth<br/> had touched—its waters
            were unsullied—birds<br/> disturbed it not; nor animals, nor boughs<br/> that fall so often
            from the trees. Around<br/> sweet grasses nourished by the stream grew; trees<br/> that
            shaded from the sun let balmy airs<br/> temper its waters. Here Narcissus, tired<br/> of
            hunting and the heated noon, lay down,<br/> attracted by the peaceful solitudes<br/> and by
            the glassy spring. There as he stooped<br/> to quench his thirst another thirst
            increased.<br/></p>
         <p>While he is drinking he beholds himself<br/>
            reflected in the mirrored pool—and loves;<br/> loves an imagined body which
            contains<br/> no substance, for he deems the mirrored shade<br/> a thing of life to
            love. He cannot move,<br/> for so he marvels at himself, and lies<br/> with countenance
            unchanged, as if indeed<br/> a statue carved of Parian marble. Long,<br/> supine upon
            the bank, his gaze is fixed<br/> on his own eyes, twin stars; his fingers shaped<br/> as
            Bacchus might desire, his flowing hair<br/> as glorious as Apollo's, and
            his cheeks<br/> youthful and smooth; his ivory neck, his mouth<br/> dreaming in
            sweetness, his complexion fair<br/> and blushing as the rose in snow-drift white.<br/>
            All that is lovely in himself he loves,<br/> and in his witless way he wants
            himself:—<br/> he who approves is equally approved;<br/> he seeks, is sought, he burns
            and he is burnt.<br/></p>
         <p>And how he kisses the deceitful fount;<br/> and how he thrusts his arms to catch the
            neck<br/> that's pictured in the middle of the stream!<br/> Yet never may he wreathe his
            arms around<br/> that image of himself. He knows not what<br/> he there beholds, but what he
            sees inflames<br/> his longing, and the error that deceives<br/> allures his eyes. But why,
            O foolish boy,<br/> so vainly catching at this flitting form?<br/> The cheat that you are
            seeking has no place.<br/> Avert your gaze and you will lose your love,<br/> for this that
            holds your eyes is nothing save<br/> the image of yourself reflected back to you.<br/> It
            comes and waits with you; it has no life;<br/> it will depart if you will only go.<br/></p>
         <p>Nor food nor rest can draw him thence—outstretched<br/> upon the overshadowed green, his
            eyes<br/> fixed on the mirrored image never may know<br/> their longings satisfied, and by
            their sight<br/> he is himself undone. Raising himself<br/> a moment, he extends his arms
            around,<br/> and, beckoning to the murmuring forest;
            “Oh,<br/> ye aisled wood was ever man in love<br/> more fatally than I? Your silent
            paths<br/> have sheltered many a one whose love was told,<br/> and ye have heard their
            voices. Ages vast<br/> have rolled away since your forgotten birth,<br/> but who is he
            through all those weary years<br/> that ever pined away as I? Alas,<br/> this fatal
            image wins my love, as I<br/> behold it. But I cannot press my arms<br/> around the form
            I see, the form that gives<br/> me joy. What strange mistake has intervened<br/> betwixt
            us and our love? It grieves me more<br/> that neither lands nor seas nor mountains,
            no,<br/> nor walls with closed gates deny our loves,<br/> but only a little water keeps
            us far<br/> asunder. Surely he desires my love<br/> and my embraces, for as oft I
            strive<br/> to kiss him, bending to the limpid stream<br/> my lips, so often does he
            hold his face<br/> fondly to me, and vainly struggles up.<br/> It seems that I could
            touch him. 'Tis a strange<br/> delusion that is keeping us apart.<br/></p>
         <p>“Whoever thou art, Come up! Deceive me not!<br/> Oh,
            whither when I fain pursue art thou?<br/> Ah, surely I am young and fair, the
            Nymphs<br/> have loved me; and when I behold thy smiles<br/> I cannot tell thee what
            sweet hopes arise.<br/> When I extend my loving arms to thee<br/> thine also are
            extended me — thy smiles<br/> return my own. When I was weeping, I<br/> have seen thy
            tears, and every sign I make<br/> thou cost return; and often thy sweet lips<br/> have
            seemed to move, that, peradventure words,<br/> which I have never heard, thou hast
            returned.<br/></p>
         <p>“No more my shade deceives me, I perceive<br/> 'Tis I
            in thee—I love myself—the flame<br/> arises in my breast and burns my heart—<br/> what
            shall I do? Shall I at once implore?<br/> Or should I linger till my love is
            sought?<br/> What is it I implore? The thing that I<br/> desire is mine—abundance makes
            me poor.<br/> Oh, I am tortured by a strange desire<br/> unknown to me before, for I
            would fain<br/> put off this mortal form; which only means<br/> I wish the object of my
            love away.<br/> Grief saps my strength, the sands of life are run,<br/> and in my early
            youth am I cut off;<br/> but death is not my bane—it ends my woe.—<br/> I would not
            death for this that is my love,<br/> as two united in a single soul<br/> would die as
            one.”<br/></p>
         <p>He spoke; and crazed with love,<br/> returned to view the same face in the pool;<br/> and as
            he grieved his tears disturbed the stream,<br/> and ripples on the surface, glassy
            clear,<br/> defaced his mirrored form. And thus the youth,<br/> when he beheld that lovely
            shadow go;<br/>
            “Ah whither cost thou fly? Oh, I entreat<br/> thee
            leave me not. Alas, thou cruel boy<br/> thus to forsake thy lover. Stay with me<br/>
            that I may see thy lovely form, for though<br/> I may not touch thee I shall feed my
            eyes<br/> and soothe my wretched pains.” And while he spoke<br/> he rent his
            garment from the upper edge,<br/> and beating on his naked breast, all white<br/> as marble,
            every stroke produced a tint<br/> as lovely as the apple streaked with red,<br/> or as the
            glowing grape when purple bloom<br/> touches the ripening clusters.<br/>
            </p>
         <p>When as glass<br/> again the rippling waters smoothed, and when<br/> such beauty in the
            stream the youth observed,<br/> no more could he endure. As in the flame<br/> the yellow
            wax, or as the hoar-frost melts<br/> in early morning 'neath the genial sun;<br/> so did he
            pine away, by love consumed,<br/> and slowly wasted by a hidden flame.<br/> No vermeil bloom
            now mingled in the white<br/> of his complexion fair; no strength has he,<br/> no vigor, nor
            the comeliness that wrought<br/> for love so long: alas, that handsome form<br/> by Echo
            fondly loved may please no more.<br/></p>
         <p>But when she saw him in his hapless plight,<br/> though angry at his scorn, she only
            grieved.<br/> As often as the love-lore boy complained,<br/>
            “Alas!”
            “Alas!” her echoing voice returned;<br/> and as he struck his
            hands against his arms,<br/> she ever answered with her echoing sounds.<br/> And as he gazed
            upon the mirrored pool<br/> he said at last, “Ah, youth beloved in
            vain!”<br/>
            “In vain, in vain!” the spot returned his words;<br/> and when he
            breathed a sad “farewell!”
            “Farewell!”<br/> sighed Echo too. He laid
            his wearied head,<br/> and rested on the verdant grass; and those<br/> bright eyes, which
            had so loved to gaze, entranced,<br/> on their own master's beauty, sad Night closed.<br/>
            And now although among the nether shades<br/> his sad sprite roams, he ever loves to
            gaze<br/> on his reflection in the Stygian wave.<br/></p>
         <p>His Naiad sisters mourned, and having clipped<br/> their shining tresses laid them on his
            corpse:<br/> and all the Dryads mourned: and Echo made<br/> lament anew. And these would
            have upraised<br/> his funeral pyre, and waved the flaming torch,<br/> and made his bier;
            but as they turned their eyes<br/> where he had been, <span class="hoverable _transform">alas he was
               not there!<br/> And in his body's place a sweet flower grew,<br/> golden and white, the
               white around the gold.</span><span class="trans_hover">physical</span><br/></p>
      </div>
      <div class="stick"><span class="tag">Tag</span><p class="removespace"><strong>Male:</strong></p><input type="checkbox" value="male_character"/><span class="male_character">descriptors</span><br/><input type="checkbox" value="male_dia"/><span class="male_dia">dialogue</span><br/><input type="checkbox" value="male_transform"/><span class="male_transform">transformations</span><br/><p class="removespace"><strong>Female:</strong></p><input type="checkbox" value="female_character"/><span class="female_character">descriptors</span><br/><input type="checkbox" value="female_dia"/><span class="female_dia">dialogue</span><br/><input type="checkbox" value="female_transform"/><span class="female_transform">transformations</span><br/><p class="removespace"><strong>Non-Binary:</strong></p><input type="checkbox" value="nonbinary_character"/><span class="nonbinary_character">descriptors</span><br/><input type="checkbox" value="nonbinary_dia"/><span class="nonbinary_dia">dialogue</span><br/><input type="checkbox" value="nonbinary_transform"/><span class="nonbinary_transform">transformations</span></div>
   </body>
</html>