<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
   <head>
      <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="readingview.css"/>
      <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="ovid.css"/><script type="text/javascript" src="readingview.js"></script><title>Reading View</title>
   </head>
   <body><!--#include virtual="menu.xhtml" -->
      <table>
         <tr>
            <td><a href="ARACHNE-AND-MINERVA-OVID.xhtml">Arachne and Minerva</a></td>
            <td><a href="Caeneus.xhtml">Caeneus</a></td>
            <td><a href="CERES-AND-PROSERPINA-OVID.xhtml">Ceres and Proserpina</a></td>
            <td><a href="Dryope.xhtml">Dryope</a></td>
            <td><a href="DIANA-AND-ACTEON-OVID.xhtml">Diana and Actaeon</a></td>
            <td><a href="Hercules-and-Achelous.xhtml">Hercules and Achelous</a></td>
            <td><a href="ECHO-AND-NARCISSUS-OVID.xhtml">Echo and Narcissus</a></td>
         </tr>
         <tr>
            <td><a href="HERMAPHRODITIS-OVID-XML.xhtml">Hermaphroditus</a></td>
            <td><a href="JASON-AND-MEDEA-OVID.xhtml">Jason and Medea</a></td>
            <td><a href="Iphis.xhtml">Iphis and Ianthe</a></td>
            <td><a href="PROCNE-AND-PHILOMELA-OVID.xhtml">Tereus and Philomela</a></td>
            <td><a href="KING-MINOS-AND-SCYLLA.xhtml">Minos and Scylla</a></td>
            <td><a href="Scylla-et-Circe.xhtml">Scylla and Circe</a></td>
            <td><a href="THE-DAUGHTERS-OF-MINYAS-OVID.xhtml">Daughters of Minyas</a></td>
         </tr>
      </table>
      <h1><span class="myth-label">Myth:</span><br/>HERCULES AND ACHELOUS</h1>
      <p class="highlightguide"><strong>Tip:</strong> Hover over <span class="orangeHighlight">highlighted text</span> to reveal more information about each element!</p>
      <div class="text">
         <h2>Text</h2><strong>Achelous et Hercules.</strong><p>To him the hero, who proclaimed himself<br/> a favored son of Neptune, answered now;<br/>
            “Declare the reason of your heavy sighs,<br/> and how your horn was
            broken?” And at once<br/> the Calydonian River-God replied,<br/> binding with
            reeds his unadorned rough locks:<br/></p>
         <p>“It is a mournful task you have required,<br/> for who
            can wish to tell his own disgrace?<br/> But truly I shall speak without disguise,<br/>
            for my defeat, if rightly understood,<br/> should be my glory.—Even to have fought<br/>
            in battle with a hero of such might,<br/> affords me consolation.<br/></p>
         <p>“Deianira<br/>
            (you may have heard some tales of her) was once<br/> the envied hope of many. She was then<br/>
            <span class="hoverable female_character">a lovely virgin</span><span class="char_hover">virginal</span>.—I, among the rest<br/> who loved this
            maiden, entered the fair home<br/> of her great father Oeneus,
            and I said;<br/></p>
         <p>“ ‘Consider all
            my claims, Parthaon's son,<br/> for I am come to plead your daughter's
            cause<br/> and mine—So you may make me son-in-law.,—’<br/> no sooner was it
            said, than Hercules<br/> in such words also claimed
            <span class="hoverable female_character">the virgin's hand</span><span class="char_hover">virginal</span>:<br/>
            all others quickly yielded to our claims.<br/></p>
         <p>“He boasted his descent from Jupiter;<br/>
            the glory of his labors and great deeds<br/> performed at his unjust stepmother's
            wish.<br/>
            </p>
         <p>“But as he was not then a God, it seemed<br/>
            disgraceful if my state should yield my right;<br/> so I contended with these haughty words,<br/>
            <span class="hoverable male_dia">‘<span class="hoverable male_character">Why should this alien of a foreign land,<br/> contending for
                  your daughter, match himself<br/> to me! king of the waters in this
                  realm!</span><span class="char_hover">cocky</span><br/> For as I wind around, across your lands,<br/> I must be
               of your people, and a part<br/> of your great state. Oh, let it not be said,<br/>
               because the jealous Juno had no thought<br/> to punish me by labors, my
               descent<br/> is not so regal! This tremendous boast,<br/> that you,
               Alcmena's son, are sprung from Jove,<br/> falls at the
               touch of truth;—or it reveals<br/> the shame of a weak mother, who so gained<br/>
               your doubtful glory of descent from Heaven!<br/> Prove your descent from
               Jupiter is false,<br/> or else confess you are the son of
               shame!’</span><span class="dia_hover">sp: achelous<br/>invo: hercules</span><br/></p>
         <p>“But Hercules,
            <span class="hoverable male_character">unable to control<br/> the flame of his
               great wrath, scowled as I spoke</span><span class="char_hover">rage</span>.<br/> He briefly answered me, ‘My hand excels<br/> my tongue; let me now overcome
            in fight,<br/> and I may suffer your offence of words.’<br/></p>
         <p>“Full of unvented rage he rushed on me,<br/> but firm I
            stood, ashamed to yield a foot—<br/> I had so largely boasted, no retreat was left,<br/>
            and so I doffed my green robe—Striking guard,<br/> with clenched hands doubled at my
            breast,<br/> I stood my ground. He scooped up in his hand<br/> fine, yellow dust; and
            tossed it on the air<br/> so that the tawny powder sprinkled us;<br/> quick-shifting
            then he sought to strike my neck,<br/> or feint at my quick-moving legs, and turn<br/>
            swift moving to attack me at all points.<br/> But as a huge cliff in the sea
            remains<br/> unmoved, unshaken by the sounding waves,<br/> so my great size, against his
            vain attacks,<br/> defended me securely—Back we went;<br/> retiring for a space; then
            rushed again<br/> together, furious, and with foot to foot,<br/> determined not to
            yield, defiant stood,<br/> till, forward-bending from my waist and hips,<br/> I pressed
            my forehead against his and locked<br/> his fingers into mine: so, have I seen<br/> two
            strong bulls rush in combat for the good<br/> of some smooth heifer in the
            pasture—while<br/> the herd a-tremble and uncertain, wait;<br/> ready to give allegiance
            to the one<br/> most worthy of dominion.<br/></p>
         <p>“Thrice in vain<br/>
            Hercules strove to push my breast from his,<br/>
            but I pressed ever closer—till, the fourth<br/> attempt succeeding, he unloosed my
            grip,<br/> and breaking from my circling arms drew back,<br/> and struck me such a
            buffet with his hand,<br/> it twisted me about, and instantly<br/> he clung with all his
            weight upon my back—<br/></p>
         <p>“Believe me I have not suppressed the truth.<br/> Nor
            shall I try to gain applause not due:<br/> I seemed to bear a mountain on my back.
            —<br/> straining and dripping sweat, I broke his hold,—<br/> with great exertion I
            unlocked his grip.<br/> He pressed upon me, as I strained for breath,<br/> preventing a
            renewal of my strength,<br/> and seized upon my neck. Then at the last,<br/> my bent
            knee went down on the gritty earth,<br/> I bit the sand. So, worsted in my strength,<br/>
            <span class="hoverable male_transform">I sought diversion by an artifice,<br/> and
               changed me to a serpent.—I then slipped<br/> from his tight clutches my great
               length, and coiled<br/> my body now transformed to snaky folds—<br/> hissing I
               darted my divided tongue.</span><span class="trans_hover">physical</span><br/></p>
         <p>“But Hercules,
            Alcides, only laughed<br/> and in derision of my scheming, said,<br/>
            <span class="hoverable male_dia">‘It was the pastime of my cradle
               days<br/> to strangle better snakes than you—and though<br/> your great length may
               excel all of your kind,<br/> how small a part of that Lernaean snake<br/> would
               you—one serpent be? It grew from wounds<br/> I gave (at first it had one hundred
               heads)<br/> and every time I severed one head from<br/> its neck two grew there in
               the place of one,<br/> by which its strength increased. This creature then<br/>
               outbranching with strong serpents, sprung from death<br/> and thriving on
               destruction, I destroyed.—<br/> What do you think will then become of you,<br/>
               disguised so in deceitful serpent-form,<br/> wielding a borrowed weapon not your
               own</span><span class="dia_hover">sp: hercules<br/>invo: Achelous</span><br/></p>
         <p>“And after he had ridiculed me thus,<br/> he gouged his
            fingers underneath my jaws,<br/> so that my throat was tortured, as if squeezed<br/>
            with forceps, while I struggled in his grip.<br/></p>
         <p>“Twice was I vanquished, there remained to me<br/>
            <span class="hoverable male_transform">a third form so again I changed to seem<br/> a
               savage bull, and with my limbs renewed<br/> in that form fought once
               more.</span><span class="trans_hover">physical</span> He threw his arms<br/> about the left side of my ponderous
            neck,<br/> and dragging on me followed as I ran.<br/> He seized on my hard horns, and,
            tugging turned<br/> and twisted me, until he fastened them<br/> firm in the surface of
            the earth; and pushed<br/> me, helpless, to the shifting sand beneath.<br/> Not yet
            content he laid his fierce right hand<br/> on my tough horn, and broke and tore it
            from<br/> my mutilated head.—This horn, now heaped<br/> with fruits delicious and
            sweet-smelling flowers,<br/> the Naiads have held sacred from that hour,<br/> devoted to
            the bounteous goddess Plenty.’<br/></p>
         <p>All this the River-god said; <span class="hoverable female_character">then a nymph,<br/> a lovely nymph</span><span class="char_hover">virginal</span> like fair
            Diana dressed,<br/> whose locks were flowing down on either side,<br/>
            <span class="hoverable female_character">came graceful to the board, and brought to
               them<br/> of Autumn's plenty in an ample horn,<br/> and gave to them selected apples
               for<br/> a second course.</span><span class="char_hover">matronly</span><br/></p>
         <p>And now, as early dawn<br/> appeared, and as the rising sunlight flashed<br/> on golden
            summits of surrounding hills,<br/> the young men waited not until the stream<br/> subsiding,
            had resumed its peaceful way,<br/> but all arose, reluctant, and went forth.<br/>
            </p>
         <p>Then Achelous, in his moving waves,<br/> hid his fine
            rustic features and his head,<br/> scarred by the wound which gave the Horn of
            Plenty.<br/></p>
      </div>
      <div class="stick"><span class="tag">Tag</span><p class="removespace"><strong>Male:</strong></p><input type="checkbox" value="male_character"/><span class="male_character">descriptors</span><br/><input type="checkbox" value="male_dia"/><span class="male_dia">dialogue</span><br/><input type="checkbox" value="male_transform"/><span class="male_transform">transformations</span><br/><p class="removespace"><strong>Female:</strong></p><input type="checkbox" value="female_character"/><span class="female_character">descriptors</span><br/><input type="checkbox" value="female_dia"/><span class="female_dia">dialogue</span><br/><input type="checkbox" value="female_transform"/><span class="female_transform">transformations</span><br/><p class="removespace"><strong>Non-Binary:</strong></p><input type="checkbox" value="nonbinary_character"/><span class="nonbinary_character">descriptors</span><br/><input type="checkbox" value="nonbinary_dia"/><span class="nonbinary_dia">dialogue</span><br/><input type="checkbox" value="nonbinary_transform"/><span class="nonbinary_transform">transformations</span></div>
   </body>
</html>