<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
   <head>
      <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="readingview.css"/>
      <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="ovid.css"/><script type="text/javascript" src="readingview.js"></script><title>Reading View</title>
   </head>
   <body><!--#include virtual="menu.xhtml" -->
      <table>
         <tr>
            <td><a href="ARACHNE-AND-MINERVA-OVID.xhtml">Arachne and Minerva</a></td>
            <td><a href="Caeneus.xhtml">Caeneus</a></td>
            <td><a href="CERES-AND-PROSERPINA-OVID.xhtml">Ceres and Proserpina</a></td>
            <td><a href="Dryope.xhtml">Dryope</a></td>
            <td><a href="DIANA-AND-ACTEON-OVID.xhtml">Diana and Actaeon</a></td>
            <td><a href="Hercules-and-Achelous.xhtml">Hercules and Achelous</a></td>
            <td><a href="ECHO-AND-NARCISSUS-OVID.xhtml">Echo and Narcissus</a></td>
         </tr>
         <tr>
            <td><a href="HERMAPHRODITIS-OVID-XML.xhtml">Hermaphroditus</a></td>
            <td><a href="JASON-AND-MEDEA-OVID.xhtml">Jason and Medea</a></td>
            <td><a href="Iphis.xhtml">Iphis and Ianthe</a></td>
            <td><a href="PROCNE-AND-PHILOMELA-OVID.xhtml">Tereus and Philomela</a></td>
            <td><a href="KING-MINOS-AND-SCYLLA.xhtml">Minos and Scylla</a></td>
            <td><a href="Scylla-et-Circe.xhtml">Scylla and Circe</a></td>
            <td><a href="THE-DAUGHTERS-OF-MINYAS-OVID.xhtml">Daughters of Minyas</a></td>
         </tr>
      </table>
      <h1><span class="myth-label">Myth:</span><br/>HERMAPHRODITUS</h1>
      <p class="highlightguide"><strong>Tip:</strong> Hover over <span class="orangeHighlight">highlighted text</span> to reveal more information about each element!</p>
      <div class="text">
         <h2>Text</h2><strong></strong><p>Learn how the fountain, Salmacis, became<br/> so infamous; learn how
            it enervates<br/> and softens the limbs of those who chance to bathe.<br/> Although the
            fountain's properties are known,<br/> the cause is yet unknown. The Naiads nursed<br/> an
            infant son of Hermes, surely his<br/> of Aphrodite gotten in the
            caves <br/> of Ida, for the child resembled both<br/> the god and goddess, and his name was
            theirs.<br/></p>
         <p>The years passed by, and when the boy had reached<br/> the limit of three lustrums, he
            forsook<br/> his native mountains; for he loved to roam<br/> through unimagined places, by
            the banks<br/> of undiscovered rivers; and the joy<br/> of finding wonders made his labour
            light.<br/></p>
         <p>Leaving Mount Ida, where his youth was spent,<br/> he reached the land of
            Lycia, and from thence<br/> the verge of Caria, where a
            pretty pool<br/> of soft translucent water may be seen,<br/> so clear the glistening bottom
            glads the eye:<br/> no barren sedge, no fenny reeds annoy,<br/> no rushes with their
            sharpened arrow-points,<br/> but all around the edges of that pool<br/> to rapid-running
            Dian. Whensoever<br/> her Naiad sisters pled in winged words,<br/>
            “Take up the javelin, sister
            Salmacis,<br/> take up the painted quiver and unite<br/> your
            leisure with the action of the chase;”<br/> she only scorned the javelin and the
            quiver,<br/> nor joined her leisure to the active chase.<br/></p>
         <p>Rather she bathes her smooth and shapely limbs;<br/> or combs her tresses with a boxwood
            comb,<br/> Citorian; or looking in the pool<br/> consults the glassed waters of effects<br/>
            increasing beauty; or she decks herself<br/> in gauzy raiment, and reposing lolls<br/> on
            cushioned leaves, or grass-enverdured beds;<br/> or gathers posies from the spangled
            lawns.<br/> Now, haply as she culled the sweetest flowers<br/> she saw the youth, and
            longing in her heart<br/>
            made havoc as her greedy eyes
            beheld.<br/></p>
         <p>Although her love could scarcely brook delay,<br/> she waited to enhance her loveliness,<br/>
            in beauty hoping to allure his love.<br/> All richly dight she scanned herself and
            robes,<br/> to know that every charm should fair appear,<br/> and she be worthy: wherefore
            she began:<br/></p>
         <p>“O godlike youth! if thou art of the skies,<br/>
            thou art no other than the god of Love;<br/> if mortal, blest are they who gave thee
            birth;<br/> happy thy brother; happy, fortunate<br/> thy sister; happy, fortunate and
            blest<br/> the nurse that gave her bosom; but the joys<br/> surpassing all, dearest and
            tenderest,<br/> are hers whom thou shalt wed. So, let it be<br/> if thou so young have
            deigned to marry, let<br/> my joys be stolen; if unmarried, join<br/> with me in
            wedlock.”So she spoke, and stood<br/> in silence waiting for the youth's
            reply.<br/></p>
         <p>He knows nor cares for love—with loveliness<br/> the mounting blushes tinge his youthful
            cheeks,<br/> as blush-red tint of apples on the tree,<br/> ripe in the summer sun, or as the
            hue<br/> of painted ivory, or the round moon<br/> red-blushing in her splendour, when the
            clash<br/> of brass resounds in vain. And long the Nymph<br/> implored; almost clung on his
            neck, as smooth<br/> and white as ivory; unceasingly<br/> imploring him to kiss her, though
            as chaste<br/> as kisses to a sister; but the youth<br/> outwearied, thus:<br/></p>
         <p>“I do beseech you make<br/> an end of this;
            or must I fly the place<br/> and leave you to your tears?” Affrighted then<br/>
            said Salmacis, “To you I
            freely give—<br/> good stranger here remain.” Although she made<br/> fair presence
            to retire, she hid herself,<br/> that from a shrub-grown covert, on her knees<br/> she might
            observe unseen.<br/></p>
         <p>As any boy<br/> that heedless deems his mischief unobserved,<br/> now here now there, he
            rambled on the green;<br/> now in the bubbly ripples dipped his feet,<br/> now dallied in
            the clear pool ankle-deep;—<br/> the warm-cool feeling of the liquid then,<br/> so pleased
            him, that without delay he doffed<br/> his fleecy garments from his tender limbs.<br/></p>
         <p>Ah, Salmacis, amazement is thy meed!<br/> Thou art consumed to know
            his naked grace!<br/> As the hot glitters of the round bright sun<br/> collected, sparkle
            from the polished plate,<br/> thine eyes are glistened with delirious fires.<br/></p>
         <p>Delay she cannot; panting for his joy,<br/>
            languid for his caressing, crazed,
            distract,<br/> her passion difficult is held in check.—<br/></p>
         <p>He claps his body with his hollow palms<br/> and lightly vaults into the limped wave,<br/>
            and darting through the water hand over hand<br/> shines in the liquid element, as
            though<br/> should one enhance a statue's ivorine,<br/> or glaze the lily in a lake of
            glass.<br/></p>
         <p>And thus the Naiad, “I have gained my suit;<br/> his
            love is mine,—is mine!” Quickly disrobed,<br/> she plunged into the yielding
            wave—seized him,<br/> caressed him, clung to him a thousand ways,<br/> kissed him, thrust
            down her hands and touched his breast:<br/> reluctant and resisting he endeavours<br/> to
            make escape, but even as he struggles<br/> she winds herself about him, as entwines<br/> the
            serpent which the royal bird on high<br/> holds in his talons; —as it hangs, it coils<br/>
            in sinuous folds around the eagle's feet;—<br/> twisting its coils around his head and
            wings:<br/> or as the ivy clings to sturdy oaks;<br/> or as the polypus beneath the
            waves,<br/> by pulling down, with suckers on all sides,<br/> tenacious holds its prey. And
            yet the youth,<br/> descendant of great Atlas, not relents<br/> nor gives the
            Naiad joy. Pressing her suit<br/> she winds her limbs around him and exclaims,<br/>
            “You shall not scape me, struggle as you will,<br/>
            perverse and obstinate! Hear me, ye Gods!<br/> Let never time release the youth from
            me;<br/> time never let me from the youth release!”<br/></p>
         <p>Propitious deities accord her prayers:<br/> the mingled bodies of the pair unite<br/> and
            fashion in a single human form.<br/> So one might see two branches underneath<br/> a single
            rind uniting grow as one:<br/> so, these two bodies in a firm embrace<br/> no more are
            twain, but with a two-fold form<br/> nor man nor woman may be called—Though both<br/> in
            seeming they are neither one of twain.<br/></p>
         <p>When that Hermaphroditus felt the change,<br/> so wrought upon him by
            the languid fount,<br/> considered that he entered it a man,<br/> and now his limbs relaxing
            in the stream<br/>
            <span class="hoverable non-binary_transform">he is not wholly male, but only
               half</span><span class="trans_hover">physical</span>,—<br/> he lifted up his hands and thus implored,<br/> albeit with no
            manly voice; “Hear me<br/>
            <span class="hoverable non-binary_dia">O father!</span><span class="dia_hover">sp: hermaphroditus<br/>invo: hermes</span>
            <span class="hoverable non-binary_dia">hear me mother!</span><span class="dia_hover">sp: hermaphroditus<br/>invo: aphrodite</span>
            grant to me<br/> this boon; to me whose name is yours, your son;<br/> whoso shall enter in
            this fount a man<br/> must leave its <br/> the softest grass engirdles with its
            green.<br/></p>
         <p>A Nymph dwells there, unsuited to the chase,<br/> unskilled to bend the bow, slothful of
            foot,<br/> the only Naiad in the world unknownwaters only half a man.”<br/> Moved by the
            words of their bi-natured son<br/> both parents yield assent: they taint the fount<br/> with
            essences of dual-working powers.<br/> Now though the daughters of King
            Minyas<br/> have made an end of telling tales, they make<br/> no end of labour; for
            they so despise<br/> the deity, and desecrate his feast.<br/></p>
         <p>While busily engaged, with sudden beat<br/> they hear resounding tambourines; and pipes<br/>
            and crooked horns and tinkling brass renew,<br/> unseen, the note; saffron and myrrh
            dissolve<br/> in dulcet odours; and, beyond belief,<br/> the woven webs, dependent on the
            loom,<br/> take tints of green, put forth new ivy leaves,<br/> or change to grape-vines
            verdant. There the thread<br/> is twisted into tendrils, there the warp<br/> is fashioned
            into many-moving leaves—<br/> the purple lends its splendour to the grape.<br/></p>
         <p>And now the day is past; it is the hour<br/> when night ambiguous merges into day,<br/> which
            dubious owns nor light nor dun obscure;<br/> and suddenly the house begins to shake,<br/>
            and torches oil-dipped seem to flare around,<br/> and fires a-glow to shine in every
            room,<br/> and phantoms, feigned of savage beasts, to howl.—<br/></p>
         <p>Full of affright amid the smoking halls<br/> the sisters vainly hide, and wheresoever<br/>
            they deem security from flaming fires,<br/> fearfully flit. And while they seek to
            hide,<br/> a membrane stretches over every limb,<br/> and light wings open from their
            slender arms.<br/></p>
         <p>In the weird darkness they are unaware<br/> what measure wrought to change their wonted
            shape.<br/> No plumous vans avail to lift their flight,<br/> yet fair they balance on
            membraneous wing.<br/> Whenever they would speak a tiny voice,<br/> diminutive, apportioned
            to their size,<br/> in squeaking note complains. Adread the light,<br/> their haunts avoid
            by day the leafy woods,<br/> for sombre attics, where secure they rest<br/> till forth the
            dun obscure their wings may stretch<br/> at hour of Vesper;—this accords their
            name.<br/></p>
      </div>
      <div class="stick"><span class="tag">Tag</span><p class="removespace"><strong>Male:</strong></p><input type="checkbox" value="male_character"/><span class="male_character">descriptors</span><br/><input type="checkbox" value="male_dia"/><span class="male_dia">dialogue</span><br/><input type="checkbox" value="male_transform"/><span class="male_transform">transformations</span><br/><p class="removespace"><strong>Female:</strong></p><input type="checkbox" value="female_character"/><span class="female_character">descriptors</span><br/><input type="checkbox" value="female_dia"/><span class="female_dia">dialogue</span><br/><input type="checkbox" value="female_transform"/><span class="female_transform">transformations</span><br/><p class="removespace"><strong>Non-Binary:</strong></p><input type="checkbox" value="nonbinary_character"/><span class="nonbinary_character">descriptors</span><br/><input type="checkbox" value="nonbinary_dia"/><span class="nonbinary_dia">dialogue</span><br/><input type="checkbox" value="nonbinary_transform"/><span class="nonbinary_transform">transformations</span></div>
   </body>
</html>