<!DOCTYPE html>
<?xml-stylesheet type="text/css" href="ovid.css"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="ovid.css" />
        <title> The Portrayal of Divinity in The Metamorphoses </title>
    </head>
    <body>
        <div class="image_title"><h2 class="projectTitle">Portrayals of Divinity in The Metamorphoses</h2></div>
        <div class="mainNavbar">
            <ul>
                <li><a class="main" href="/">Home</a></li>
                <li><a class="main" href="ovic-meme.png">About</a></li>
                <li><a class="main" href="ovic-meme.png">Texts</a></li>
                <li><a class="main" href="character_page_ovid.xsl">Characters</a></li>
                <li><a class="main" href="ovic-meme.png">Methodology</a></li>
                <li><a class="main" href="ovic-meme.png">Conclusions</a></li>
            </ul></div>
        <div class="overview">
            <h2>Overview</h2>
            <hr />
            <p>Salvete Omnes! The Metamorphoses is a collection of narrative poems that tells important stories from Roman mythological anthologies as well as Roman history. The poem was written in 8 CE by Roman poet Ovid, with its original language being in Latin. 
                
                The Metamorphoses, while controversial in its creation, has inspired many pieces of sculpture and art as well as writers such as William Shakespeare and Dante Aligheri. The poem covers a myriad of themes and topics and uses the framework of mythology to discuss social issues around gender, sex, and desire.
                
                The goal of this project is to explore the gendered difference between desire, objectification, and agency. In the text, how does gender predetermine agency, and therefore the ability to desire? Who has the social acceptance to desire and be desired? As researchers, we want to understand the representations of gender in an ancient influential text as well as how this informs our understanding of gender, sex, and desire today. 
            </p>
        </div>
        <div class="about-the-team">
            <h2>About the Team</h2>
            <hr />
            <p>This project was completed by Renee Dubaich, Luciana De Jesus, and ShaoQing Cai for Computer Methods in the Humanities, a course taught at the University of Pittsburgh by Dr. David Birnbaum. 
                
                Renee Dubaich is a third-year at the University of Pittsburgh with majors in Anthropology and English Writing
                
                Luciana De Jesus is a second-year at the University of Pittsburgh with majors in Classics and Gender, Sexuality, and Women’s Studies. 
                
                Ava Cai is a first-year at the University of Pittsburgh with a major in Digital Narrative and Interactive Design 
                
                Special thanks to Dr. David Birnbaum and the whole instructional team that helped us work through the coursework and produce our project. Special thanks to Charlie Taylor for being our project mentor!
            </p>
        </div>
    </body>
</html>
