<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
   <head>
      <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="readingview.css"/>
      <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="ovid.css"/><script type="text/javascript" src="readingview.js"></script><title>Reading View</title>
   </head>
   <body><!--#include virtual="menu.xhtml" -->
      <table>
         <tr>
            <td><a href="ARACHNE-AND-MINERVA-OVID.xhtml">Arachne and Minerva</a></td>
            <td><a href="Caeneus.xhtml">Caeneus</a></td>
            <td><a href="CERES-AND-PROSERPINA-OVID.xhtml">Ceres and Proserpina</a></td>
            <td><a href="Dryope.xhtml">Dryope</a></td>
            <td><a href="DIANA-AND-ACTEON-OVID.xhtml">Diana and Actaeon</a></td>
            <td><a href="Hercules-and-Achelous.xhtml">Hercules and Achelous</a></td>
            <td><a href="ECHO-AND-NARCISSUS-OVID.xhtml">Echo and Narcissus</a></td>
         </tr>
         <tr>
            <td><a href="HERMAPHRODITIS-OVID-XML.xhtml">Hermaphroditus</a></td>
            <td><a href="JASON-AND-MEDEA-OVID.xhtml">Jason and Medea</a></td>
            <td><a href="Iphis.xhtml">Iphis and Ianthe</a></td>
            <td><a href="PROCNE-AND-PHILOMELA-OVID.xhtml">Tereus and Philomela</a></td>
            <td><a href="KING-MINOS-AND-SCYLLA.xhtml">Minos and Scylla</a></td>
            <td><a href="Scylla-et-Circe.xhtml">Scylla and Circe</a></td>
            <td><a href="THE-DAUGHTERS-OF-MINYAS-OVID.xhtml">Daughters of Minyas</a></td>
         </tr>
      </table>
      <h1><span class="myth-label">Myth:</span><br/>IPHIS AND IANTHE</h1>
      <p class="highlightguide"><strong>Tip:</strong> Hover over <span class="orangeHighlight">highlighted text</span> to reveal more information about each element!</p>
      <div class="text">
         <h2>Text</h2><strong>Iphis.</strong><p>The tale of this unholy passion would<br/> perhaps, have filled Crete's
            hundred cities then,<br/> if Crete had not a wonder of its own<br/> to talk
            of, in the change of Iphis. Once,<br/> there lived at Phaestus,
            not far from the town<br/> of Gnossus, a man Ligdus, not well
            known;<br/> in fact obscure, of humble parentage,<br/> whose income was no greater than his
            birth;<br/> but he was held trustworthy and his life<br/> had been quite blameless. When the
            time drew near<br/> his wife should give birth to a child, he warned<br/> her and instructed
            her, with words we quote:—<br/></p>
         <p><span class="hoverable male_dia">“There are two things which I would ask
               of Heaven:<br/> that you may be delivered with small pain,<br/> and that your child may
               surely be a boy.<br/> Girls are such trouble, fair strength is denied<br/> to
               them.—Therefore (may Heaven refuse the thought)<br/> if chance should cause your child
               to be a girl,<br/> (gods pardon me for having said the word!)<br/> we must agree to have
               her put to death.”</span><span class="dia_hover">sp: ligdus<br/>invo: telethusa</span><br/>
            </p>
         <p><span class="hoverable non-binary_character">And all the time he spoke such dreaded
               words,<br/> their faces were completely bathed in tears;<br/> not only hers but also his
               while he<br/> forced on her that unnatural command.</span><span class="char_hover">despair</span><br/> Ah,
            Telethusa ceaselessly implored<br/> her husband to give way to fortune's
            cast;<br/> but Ligdus held his resolution
            fixed.<br/></p>
         <p>And now the expected time of birth was near,<br/> when in the middle of the night she
            seemed<br/> to see the goddess Isis, standing by<br/>
            her bed, in company of serious spirit forms;<br/>
            Isis had crescent horns upon her forehead,<br/> and a
            bright garland made of golden grain<br/> encircled her fair brow. It was a crown<br/> of
            regal beauty: and beside her stood<br/> the dog Anubis, and
            Bubastis, there<br/> the sacred, dappled Apis, and the
            God<br/> of silence with pressed finger on his lips;<br/> the sacred rattles were there, and
            Osiris, known<br/> the constant object of his worshippers' desire,<br/> and
            there the Egyptian serpent whose quick sting<br/> gives long-enduring sleep. She seemed to
            see<br/> them all, and even to hear the goddess say<br/> to her, <span class="hoverable female_dia">“O Telethusa,
               one of my<br/> remembered worshippers, forget your grief;<br/> your husband's orders
               need not be obeyed;<br/> and when Lucina has delivered you,<br/> save and
               bring up your child, if either boy<br/> or girl. <span class="hoverable female_character">I am the goddess who brings help<br/> to all who call upon me;
                  and you shall<br/> never complain of me—that you adored<br/> a thankless
                  deity.</span><span class="char_hover">protector</span>”</span><span class="dia_hover">sp: isis<br/>invo: telethusa</span> So she advised<br/> by vision the sad mother, and left
            her.<br/></p>
         <p><span class="hoverable female_character">The Cretan woman joyfully arose<br/> from her sad
               bed, and supplicating, raised<br/> ecstatic hands up towards the listening stars,<br/>
               and prayed to them her vision might come true.</span><span class="char_hover">joy</span><br/></p>
         <p>Soon, when her pains gave birth, the mother knew<br/> her infant was a girl (the father
            had<br/> no knowledge of it, as he was not there).<br/> Intending to deceive, the mother said,<br/>
            <span class="hoverable female_dia">“Feed the dear boy.”</span><span class="dia_hover">sp: telethusa<br/>invo: ligdus</span> All things
            had favored her<br/> deceit—no one except the trusted nurse,<br/> knew of it. And the father
            paid his vows,<br/> and named the child after its grandfather, whose<br/> name was honored
            Iphis. Hearing it so called,<br/> the mother could not but rejoice,
            because<br/> her child was given a name of common gender,<br/> and she could use it with no
            more deceit.<br/></p>
         <p>She took good care to dress it as a boy,<br/> and either as a boy or girl, its face<br/> must
            always be accounted lovable.<br/></p>
         <p>And so she grew,—ten years and three had gone,<br/> and then your father found a bride for
            you<br/> O Iphis—promised you should take to
            wife<br/> the golden-haired Ianthe, praised by
            all<br/> the women of Phaestus for the dower<br/> of her unequalled beauty,
            and well known,<br/> the daughter of a Cretan named Telestes.<br/> Of equal age
            and equal loveliness,<br/> they had received from the same teachers, all<br/> instruction in
            their childish rudiments.<br/> So unsuspected love had filled their hearts<br/> with equal
            longing—but how different!<br/></p>
         <p>Ianthe waits in confidence and hope<br/> the
            ceremonial as agreed upon,<br/> and is quite certain she will wed a man.<br/> But Iphis
            is in love without one hope<br/> of passion's ecstasy,
            the thought of which<br/> only increased her flame; and she a girl<br/> is burnt with
            passion for another girl!<br/> She hardly can hold back her tears, and
            says:<br/></p>
         <p>“<span class="hoverable female_character">O what
               will be the awful dreaded end,<br/> with such a monstrous love compelling me?<br/>
               If the Gods should wish to save me, certainly<br/> they should have saved me; but,
               if their desire<br/> was for my ruin, still they should have
               given</span><span class="char_hover">despair</span><br/></p>
         <p>some natural suffering of humanity.<br/> The passion for
            a cow does not inflame a cow,<br/> no mare has ever sought another mare.<br/> The ram
            inflames the ewe, and every doe<br/> follows a chosen stag; so also birds<br/> are
            mated, and in all the animal world<br/> no female ever feels love passion for<br/>
            another female—why is it in me?<br/></p>
         <p>“Monstrosities are natural to Crete,<br/>
            the daughter of the Sun there loved a bull—<br/> it was a female's mad love for the
            male—<br/> but my desire is far more mad than hers,<br/> in strict regard of truth, for
            she had hope<br/> of love's fulfillment. She secured the bull<br/> by changing herself
            to a heifer's form;<br/> and in that subtlety it was the male<br/> deceived at last.
            Though all the subtleties<br/> of all the world should be collected here;—<br/> if
            Daedalus himself should fly back here<br/> upon his waxen wings, what
            could he do?<br/> What skillful art of his could change my sex,<br/> a girl into a
            boy—or could he change<br/>
            Ianthe? What a useless thought! Be bold<br/> take
            courage Iphis, and be strong of soul.<br/> This hopeless passion stultifies
            your heart;<br/> so shake it off, and hold your memory<br/> down to the clear fact of
            your birth: unless<br/> your will provides deception for yourself:<br/> do only what is
            lawful, and confine<br/> strictly, your love within a woman's right.<br/>
            </p>
         <p>“Hope of fulfillment can beget true love,<br/> and hope
            keeps it alive. You are deprived<br/> of this hope by the nature of your birth.<br/> No
            guardian keeps you from her dear embrace,<br/> no watchful jealous husband, and she
            has<br/> no cruel father: she does not deny<br/> herself to you. With all that
            liberty,<br/> you can not have her for your happy wife,<br/> though Gods and men should
            labor for your wish.<br/> None of my prayers has ever been denied;<br/> the willing
            Deities have granted me<br/> whatever should be, and my father helps<br/> me to
            accomplish everything I plan:<br/> she and her father also, always help.<br/> But Nature
            is more powerful than all,<br/> and only Nature works for my distress.<br/></p>
         <p>“The wedding-day already is at hand;<br/> the longed-for
            time is come; Ianthe soon<br/> will be mine
            only—and yet, not my own:<br/> with water all around me I shall thirst!<br/> O why must
            Juno, goddess of sweet brides,<br/> and why should Hymen
            also, favor us<br/> when man with woman cannot join in wedlock,<br/> but both are
            brides?” And so she closed her lips.<br/></p>
         <p>The other maiden flamed with equal love,<br/> and often prayed for Hymen to
            appear.<br/> But Telethusa, fearing that event,<br/>
            the marriage which Ianthe keenly sought,<br/>
            procrastinated, causing first delay<br/> by some pretended illness; and then gave<br/>
            pretence of omens and of visions seen,<br/> sufficient for delay, until she had<br/>
            exhausted every avenue of excuse,<br/> and only one more day remained before<br/> the
            fateful time, it was so near at hand.<br/></p>
         <p>Despairing then of finding other cause<br/> which might prevent the fated wedding-day,<br/>
            the mother took the circled fillets from<br/> her own head, and her daughter's head, and
            prayed,<br/> as she embraced the altar—her long hair<br/> spread out upon the flowing
            breeze—and said:<br/></p>
         <p><span class="hoverable female_dia">“O Isis, goddess of Paraetonium,<br/> the Mareotic fields,
               Pharos, and Nile<br/> of seven horns divided—oh give help!<br/>
               <span class="hoverable female_character">Goddess of nations! heal us of our
                  fears!<br/> I saw you, goddess, and your symbols once,<br/> and I adored them all,
                  the clashing sounds<br/> of sistra and the torches of your train,<br/> and I took
                  careful note of your commands,<br/> for which my daughter lives to see the sun,<br/>
                  and also I have so escaped from harm;—<br/> all this is of your counsel and your
                  gift;<br/> oh, pity both of us—and give us aid!</span><span class="char_hover">protector</span>”</span><span class="dia_hover">sp: telethusa<br/>invo: isis</span><br/></p>
         <p>Tears emphasized her prayer; the goddess seemed<br/> to move—in truth it was the altar
            moved;<br/> the firm doors of the temple even shook—<br/> and her horns, crescent, flashed
            with gleams of light,<br/> and her loud sistrum rattled noisily.<br/> Although not quite
            free of all fear, yet pleased<br/> by that good omen, gladly the mother left<br/> the temple
            with her daughter Iphis, who<br/> beside her walked,
            but with a lengthened stride.<br/></p>
         <p><span class="hoverable male_transform">Her face seemed of a darker hue, her strength<br/>
               seemed greater, and her features were more stern.<br/> Her hair once long, was unadorned
               and short.<br/> There is more vigor in her than she showed<br/> in her girl ways. For in
               the name of truth,<br/>
               Iphis, who was a girl, is now a
               man!</span><span class="trans_hover">physical</span><br/> Make offerings at the temple and rejoice<br/> without a fear!—They
            offer at the shrines,<br/> and add a votive tablet, on which this<br/> inscription is
            engraved:<br/></p>
         <p>these gifts are paid<br/> by Iphis as a man which as a
            maid<br/> he vowed to give.<br/></p>
         <p>The morrow's dawn<br/> revealed the wide world; on the day agreed,<br/>
            Venus, Juno and Hymen, all have met<br/> our happy
            lovers at the marriage fires; <br/></p>
         <p>and Iphis, a new man, gained his Ianthe.<br/></p>
      </div>
      <div class="stick"><span class="tag">Tag</span><p class="removespace"><strong>Male:</strong></p><input type="checkbox" value="male_character"/><span class="male_character">descriptors</span><br/><input type="checkbox" value="male_dia"/><span class="male_dia">dialogue</span><br/><input type="checkbox" value="male_transform"/><span class="male_transform">transformations</span><br/><p class="removespace"><strong>Female:</strong></p><input type="checkbox" value="female_character"/><span class="female_character">descriptors</span><br/><input type="checkbox" value="female_dia"/><span class="female_dia">dialogue</span><br/><input type="checkbox" value="female_transform"/><span class="female_transform">transformations</span><br/><p class="removespace"><strong>Non-Binary:</strong></p><input type="checkbox" value="nonbinary_character"/><span class="nonbinary_character">descriptors</span><br/><input type="checkbox" value="nonbinary_dia"/><span class="nonbinary_dia">dialogue</span><br/><input type="checkbox" value="nonbinary_transform"/><span class="nonbinary_transform">transformations</span></div>
   </body>
</html>