<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
   <head>
      <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="readingview.css"/>
      <title>Myth</title>
   </head>
   <body>
      <h1><span class="myth-label">Myth of:</span><br/>JASON AND MEDEA </h1>
      <div class="text">
         <h2>Text</h2><strong>Iason et Medea.</strong><p>Over the storm-tossed waves, the Argonauts<br/> had sailed in Argo, their long
            ship to where<br/>
            King Phineus, needy in his old age, reigned—<br/> deprived of sight and feeble.
            When the sons<br/> of Boreas had landed on the shore,<br/> and seen the Harpies
            snatching from the king<br/> his nourishment, befouling it with beaks<br/> obscene, they
            drove those human-vultures thence.<br/></p>
         <p>And having suffered hardships and great toils,<br/> after the day they rescued the sad
            king<br/> from the vile Harpies, those twin valiant youths,<br/>
            Zetes and Calais
            <span class="hoverable male_character">came with their chief,<br/> the mighty
               Jason,</span><span class="char_hover">protector</span> where the Phasis flows.<br/></p>
         <p>From the green margin of that river, all<br/> the crew of Argonauts, by <span class="hoverable male_character">Jasonled,<br/> went to the king Aeetes
               and required<br/> the Golden Fleece, that he received from Phryxus.<br/>
               </span><span class="char_hover">protector</span> When they had bargained with him, full of wiles<br/> he offered to restore the
            Golden Fleece<br/> only to those who might to him return,<br/> victorious from hard labors
            of great risk.<br/></p>
         <p><span class="hoverable female_character">Medea</span><span class="char_hover">virginal</span>, the king's daughter, near
            his throne,<br/> saw <span class="hoverable male_character">Jason</span><span class="char_hover">protector</span>, leader
            of the Argonauts,<br/> as he was pressing to secure a prize—<br/> and loved at sight with a consuming flame.<br/>
            </p>
         <p>Although she struggled to suppress her love,<br/> unable
            to restrain herself, she said,<br/>
            “In vain I've
            striven to subdue my heart:<br/> some god it must be, which I cannot tell,<br/> is
            working to destroy my hapless life;<br/> or else it is the burning flame of
            love<br/> that in me rages. If it is not love,<br/> why do the mandates of my father
            seem<br/> too harsh? They surely are too harsh. Why do<br/> I fear that he may
            perish whom I have<br/> seen only once? What is the secret cause<br/> that I am
            agitated by such fears?—<br/> It is no other than the god of
            Love.<br/></p>
         <p>“Thrust from your virgin breast such burning flames<br/>
            but some deluding power is holding me<br/> helpless
            against my will. Desire persuades<br/> me one way, but my reason still
            persuades<br/> another way. I see a better course<br/> and I approve, but follow its
            defeat. —<br/></p>
         <p><span class="hoverable female_character">“O royal
               maiden, why are you consumed<br/> with love for this strange man, and why are
               you<br/> so willing to be carried by the nuptial ties<br/> so far from your own
               country, where, indeed,<br/> are many brave men worthy of your
               love?</span><span class="char_hover">virginal</span><br/></p>
         <p>“Whether for life or death his numbered hours<br/> are in the mercy of the living Gods,<br/>
            and that he may not suffer risk of death,<br/> too well foreseen, now let my prayers
            prevail—<br/> righteously uttered of a generous heart<br/> without the stress of love. What
            wicked thing<br/> has Jason done? His handsome person,
            youth,<br/> and noble ways, would move a heart of stone.<br/></p>
         <p>“Have I a heart of flint, or was I born<br/> a tigress
            to deny him timely aid?—<br/> Unless I interpose, he will be slain<br/> by the hot
            breath of brazen-footed bulls,<br/> or will be slaughtered by the warriors, sprung<br/>
            miraculous from earth, or will be given<br/> to satisfy the ravenous appetite<br/> of a
            huge dragon.<br/></p>
         <p><span class="hoverable female_dia">“Let my gloating eyes<br/> be satiate with
               his dying agonies!<br/> Let me incite the fury of these bulls!<br/> Stir to their
               blood-lust mad-born sons of Earth!<br/> Rouse up the never-sleeping dragon's rage!—<br/>
               “Avert it Gods!</span><span class="dia_hover">sp: Medea<br/>invo: Gods</span>—<br/></p>
         <p>“But why should I cry out<br/> upon the Gods to save him
            from such wrong,<br/> when, by my actions and my power, myself<br/> may shield him from
            all evils?<br/></p>
         <p>“Such a course<br/> would wreck the kingdom of my
            father—and by me<br/> the wily stranger would escape from him;<br/> and spreading to the
            wind his ready sails<br/> he would forget and leave me to my fate.—<br/> Oh, if he
            should forget my sacrifice,<br/> and so prefer those who neglected him,<br/> let him
            then perish in his treachery.—<br/></p>
         <p>“But these are idle thoughts: his countenance,<br/>
            reveals innate nobility and grace,<br/> that should dispel all fear of treachery,<br/>
            and guarantee his ever-faithful heart.<br/> The Gods will witness our united souls,<br/>
            and he shall pledge his faith. Secure of it<br/> my fear will be removed. Be ready,
            then—<br/> and make a virtue of necessity:<br/> your <span class="hoverable male_character">Jason</span><span class="char_hover">protected</span> owes himself to you; and he<br/> must join you
            in true wedlock. Then you shall<br/> be celebrated through the land of Greece,<br/> by
            throngs of women, for the man you saved.<br/></p>
         <p>“Shall I then sail away, and so forsake<br/> my sister,
            brother, father, Gods, and land<br/> that gave me birth? My father is indeed<br/> a
            stern man, and my native land is all<br/> too barbarous; my brother is a child,—<br/> my
            sister's goodwill is good help for me;<br/> and heaven's supreme god is within my
            breast.<br/></p>
         <p>“I shall not so be leaving valued hopes,<br/> but will
            be going surely to great things.<br/> And I should gain applause from all the
            world,<br/> as having saved the threatened Argonauts,<br/> most noble of the Greeks; and
            in their land,<br/> which certainly is better than my own,<br/> become the bride of
            <span class="hoverable male_character">Jason</span><span class="char_hover">protected</span>, for whose love<br/>
            I should not hesitate to give the world—<br/> and in whose love the living Gods
            rejoice<br/> so greatly; for his sake they would bestow<br/> their favors on my head,
            and make the stars<br/> my habitation.<br/></p>
         <p>“Should I hesitate<br/> because the wreck-strewn
            mountains bar the way,<br/> and clash together in the Euxine waves;<br/> or fear
            Charybdis, fatal to large ships,<br/> that sucks the deep sea in its
            whirling gulf<br/> and spouts far upward, with alternate force,<br/> or
            Scylla, circled with infuriate hounds<br/> howling in rage from deep
            Sicilian waves?<br/></p>
         <p><span class="hoverable male_character">“Safe in
               the shielding arms of him I love,<br/> on Jason's bosom leaning,</span><span class="char_hover">protector</span> I shall
            be<br/> borne safely over wide and hostile seas;<br/> and in his dear embrace forget my fears—<br/> or if for anything I suffer
            dread,<br/> it will be only for the one I love.—<br/></p>
         <p>“Alas, <span class="hoverable female_character">Medea, this vain argument<br/> has only furnished plausible excuse<br/> for
               criminal desires, and desecrates<br/> the marriage rite. It is a wicked thing<br/>
               to think upon. Before it is too late<br/> forget your passion and deny this
               guilt.”</span><span class="char_hover">virginal</span><br/></p>
         <p>And after she had said these words, her eyes<br/> were opened to <span class="hoverable female_character">the prize of modesty,<br/> chaste virtue, and a pure
               affection:</span><span class="char_hover">virginal</span><br/> and Cupid, vanquished, turned away and
            fled.<br/></p>
         <p>Then, to an ancient altar of the goddess named<br/>
            Hecate, Perse's daughter took her way<br/> in the deep shadows of
            a forest. She<br/> was strong of purpose now, and all the flames<br/> of vanquished passion
            had died down; but when<br/> she saw the son of Aeson, dying flames<br/> leaped up again. Her cheeks grew red, then all<br/> her
            face went pale again; as a small spark<br/> when hid beneath the ashes, if fed by<br/> a
            breath of wind grows and regains its strength,<br/> as it is fanned to life; so now her
            love<br/> that had been smoldering, and which you would<br/> have thought was almost
            dead, when she had see<br/> again his manly youth, blazed up once
            more.<br/></p>
         <p>For on that day his graceful person seemed<br/> as glorious as a God;—and as she gazed,<br/>
            and fixed her eyes upon his countenance,<br/> her frenzy so prevailed, she was
            convinced<br/> that he was not a mortal. And her eyes<br/> were fascinated; and she could
            not turn<br/> away from him. But when he spoke to her,<br/> and promised marriage, grasping
            her right hand:<br/> she answered, as her eyes suffused with tears;<br/>
            <span class="hoverable female_dia">“I see what I will do, and ignorance<br/>
               of truth will not be my undoing now,<br/> but love itself. By my assistance you<br/>
               shall be preserved; but when preserved fulfill<br/> your promise.”</span><span class="dia_hover">sp: Medea<br/>invo: Jason</span><br/></p>
         <p>He swore that she could trust in him.<br/> Then by the goddess of the triple form,<br/>
            Diana, Trivia, or Luna called,<br/> and by her sacred
            groves and fanes, he vowed,<br/> and by the hallowed Sun that sees all things,<br/> and by
            his own adventures, and his life,—<br/> on these the youthful Jason took his oath.—<br/> With this she was assured and quickly gave<br/>
            to him the magic herbs: he learnt their use<br/> and full of joy withdrew into his
            house.<br/></p>
         <p>Now when the dawn had dimmed the glittering stars,<br/> the people hastened to the sacred
            field<br/> of Mars, and on the hills expectant stood.—<br/> Arrayed in purple, and in
            majesty<br/> distinguished by his ivory sceptre, sat<br/> the king, surrounded by a
            multitude.<br/> Below them on the visioned Field of Mars,<br/> huge
            brazen-footed bulls were breathing forth<br/> from adamantine nostrils living flames,<br/>
            blasting the verdant herbage in their path!<br/></p>
         <p>As forges glowing with hot flames resound,<br/> or as much quick-lime, <span class="hoverable male_character">burnt in earthen kilns,<br/> crackles and hisses as if mad
               with rage,<br/> sprinkled with water, liberating heat;</span><span class="char_hover">rage</span><br/> so their hot
            throats and triple-heated sides,<br/> resounding told of pent-up fires within.<br/></p>
         <p>The son of Aeson went to meet them. As<br/> he came to meet them the fierce
            animals<br/> turned on him faces terrible, and sharp<br/> horns tipped with iron, and they
            pawed<br/> the dusty earth with cloven feet, and filled<br/> the place with fiery
            bellowings. The Minyans<br/> were stark with fear; he went up to the bulls<br/> not feeling
            their hot breath at all, so great<br/> the power of his charmed drugs; and while he<br/> was
            stroking their down-hanging dewlaps with<br/> a fearless hand, he placed the yoke down
            on<br/> their necks and made them draw the heavy plow,<br/> and cut through fields that
            never felt the steel<br/> before. The Colchians were amazed and silent;<br/> but the loud
            shouting of the Minyans<br/> increased their hero's courage. Taking then<br/> the serpent's
            teeth out of a brazen helmet<br/> he sowed them broadcast in the new-plowed field.<br/></p>
         <p>The moist earth softened these seeds that were steeped<br/> in virulent poison and the teeth
            swelled up<br/> and took new forms. And just as in its mother<br/> an infant gradually
            assumes the form<br/> of man, and is perfected through all parts<br/> within, and does not
            come forth to the light<br/> till fully formed; so, when the forms of men<br/> had been
            completed in the womb of earth<br/> made pregnant, they rose up from it,<br/> and what is
            yet more wonderful, each one<br/> clashed weapons that had been brought forth with
            him.<br/></p>
         <p>When his companions saw the warriors turn<br/> as if with one accord, to hurl their
            spears,<br/> sharp-pointed, at the head of <span class="hoverable male_character">Jason</span><span class="char_hover">protected</span>, fear<br/> unnerved the boldest and their courage failed.<br/>
            <span class="hoverable female_character">So, too, the maid whose sorcery had
               saved<br/> him from much danger, when she saw the youth<br/> encompassed by those raging
               enemies,<br/> and he alone against so many—struck<br/> with sudden panic, she turned
               ashen white,<br/> her bloodless cheeks were blanched; and chilled with fear<br/> she
               wilted to the ground; and lest the herbs,<br/> so lately given him, might fail his
               need<br/> she added incantations and invoked<br/> mysterious arts. While she protected
               him</span><span class="char_hover">protector</span><br/></p>
         <p>He seized upon a heavy stone, and hurled<br/> it in the midst of his new enemies—<br/>
            distracted by this cast, and murderous,<br/> they turned from him, and clashing their new
            arms,<br/> those earth-born brothers fought among themselves<br/> till all were slaughtered
            in blood-thirsty strife.<br/></p>
         <p>Gladly the Greeks acclaimed him conqueror,<br/> and pressed around him for the first
            embrace.<br/> Then, too, <span class="hoverable female_character">Medea, barbarous
               Colchian maid</span><span class="char_hover">protector</span>,<br/> although her modesty
            restrained her heart,<br/> eagerly longed to fold him in her arms,<br/> but careful of
            her good name, held aloof,—<br/> rejoicing in deep, silent love; and she<br/>
            acknowledged to the Gods her mighty gift<br/> of incantations.<br/></p>
         <p>But the dragon, still<br/> alert,—magnificent and terrible<br/> with gorgeous crest and
            triple tongue, and fangs<br/> barbed as a javelin, guards the Golden Fleece:<br/> and
            <span class="hoverable male_character">Jason</span><span class="char_hover">protected</span> can obtain that quest
            only<br/> if slumber may seal up the monster's eyes.—<br/></p>
         <p><span class="hoverable male_character">Jason</span><span class="char_hover">protected</span>, successful, sprinkled on his
            crest<br/> Lethean juices of a magic herb,<br/> and then recited thrice the words which
            bring<br/> deep slumber, potent words which would becalm<br/> the storm-tossed ocean, and
            would stop the flow<br/> of the most rapid rivers of our earth:<br/> and slowly slumber
            sealed the dragon's eyes.<br/></p>
         <p>While that great monster slept, the hero took<br/> the Golden Fleece; and proudly sailed
            away<br/> bearing his treasure and the willing maid,<br/> (whose aid had saved him) to his
            native port<br/> Iolcus—victorious with the Argonauts.<br/></p>
      </div>
      <div class="stick"><span class="tag">Tag</span><p class="collapse"><strong>Male:</strong></p><input type="checkbox"/><span class="male_character">descriptors</span><br/><input type="checkbox"/><span class="male_dia">dialogue</span><br/><input type="checkbox"/><span class="male_transform">transformations</span><br/><p class="collapse"><strong>Female:</strong></p><input type="checkbox"/><span class="female_character">descriptors</span><br/><input type="checkbox"/><span class="female_dia">dialogue</span><br/><input type="checkbox"/><span class="female_transform">transformations</span><br/><p class="collapse"><strong>Non-Binary:</strong></p><input type="checkbox"/><span class="nonbinary_character">descriptors</span><br/><input type="checkbox"/><span class="nonbinary_dia">dialogue</span><br/><input type="checkbox"/><span class="nonbinary_transform">transformations</span></div>
   </body>
</html>