<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
    <head>
        <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="ovid.css" />
        <title>Methodology Page</title>
    </head>
    <body>
        <!--#include virtual="menu.xhtml" -->
        <div class="method">
            <h2>Selecting our Myths</h2>
            <hr />
            <p> Out of the 250 myths in Ovid’s <i>The Metamorphoses</i>, we carefully selected
                    <strong>14</strong> for our dataset that would best support our research
                questions. In order to narrow down to these 14, we conducted some independent
                research in order to find myths that are notable for conveying themes related to
                gender portrayal and expression. As we read through myths, we focused on observing
                patterns such as: </p>
            <p>Does the myth reaffirm socially constructed gender stereotypes? Or does the myth
                break them? <br/> Are descriptions of characters and their actions influenced by their
                gender? <br/> How are prevalent themes in <i>The Metamorphoses</i>, such as transformation and
                desire, portrayed differently based on gender?</p>
            <p>Once we chose our myths we examined language based on aspects that could be
                influenced by gender. Our findings could reveal gender biases of the author and the
                social context of the time period, as well as how the performance of gender is
                significant in the creation of these myths.</p>
        </div>
        <div class="method">
            <h2>Markup Strategy</h2>
            <hr />
            <p>We decided to markup each myth with the tags: <strong>character, desire,
                    transformation, and dialogue</strong>. Each of these tags were also given a
                gender attribute: <strong>female, male, and non-binary</strong>.</p>
            <p>The <strong>character</strong> tag was used to markup text which included
                descriptions of characters. We decided upon 9 distinct descriptions:
                    <strong>virginal, matronly, protector, protected, rage, jealous, cocky, despair,
                    joy.</strong> These descriptions were updated throughout our markup process
                anytime we observed distinct patterns of how characters were described according to
                trait, action, or emotion. These were the descriptors that were most common
                throughout our 14 myths. <br /><i><strong>note:</strong> the word “virginal”, in
                    this context refers to one who is sexually independent. Meaning, one who is
                    free, and not owned or tamed by anyone. this does not possess the same meaning
                    as one who is sexually chaste as we may know it as today. this word was most
                    commonly ascribed to feminine deities, but all descriptors are aimed to
                    disregard gender stereotypes.</i>
            </p>
            <p>The <strong>desire</strong> tag was used to compare two characters: one who is the
                perpetrator acting on desire, and one who is the object being desired. In many of
                the contexts, this desire was out of love or lust. We thought that this tag would be
                significant to our research, as desire implies agency or lack of agency. Meaning
                that we can observe which gender is more likely to desire and which gender is more
                likely to be the one desired. </p>
            <p>The <strong>transformation</strong> tag was used to markup instances where a
                character undergoes a dramatic change in physical appearance or social status.
                Therefore, we used the attributes of physical or social in order to distinguish the
                kind of transformation a character goes through. The transformation is either cast
                upon them by a deity as a curse, punishment, or for protection, or sometimes is
                performed through one's own agency for those same reasons. Here we can examine the
                occurrence of transformation according to each gender.</p>
            <p>The <strong>dialogue</strong> tag was used to markup every occurrence that a
                character spoke. This act is marked by quotations in the original text. We also gave
                the tag attributes of speaker and invocation in order to associate each dialogue
                with a specific character and who that character is addressing. This also helps us
                understand agency, as we can observe which gender has more agency through their
                voice. This can not only help us observe which gender speaks more across all myths,
                but if the character that the myth is based on speaks, or is spoken to, or spoken
                of, more. </p>
        </div>
    </body>
</html>
