<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
   <head>
      <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="readingview.css"/>
      <title>Myth</title>
   </head>
   <body>
      <h1><span class="myth-label">Myth of:</span><br/>Procne et Philomela.</h1>
      <div class="text">
         <h2>Text</h2><strong>TEREUS AND PHILOMELA</strong><p>The lords of many cities that were near,<br/> now met together and implored their kings<br/>
            to mourn with Pelops those unhappy deeds.—<br/></p>
         <p>The lords of Argos; Sparta and Mycenae;<br/> and
            Calydon, before it had incurred<br/> the hatred of
            Diana, goddess of the chase;<br/> fertile
            Orchomenus and Corinth, great<br/> in wealth of brass;
            Patrae and fierce Messena;<br/>
            Cleone, small; and Pylus and Troezen,<br/> not
            ruled by Pittheus then,—and also, all<br/> the other cities which are shut off
            by<br/> the Isthmus there dividing by its two seas,<br/> and all the cities which are seen
            from there.<br/></p>
         <p>What seemed most wonderful, of all those towns<br/>
            Athens alone was wanting, for a war<br/> had gathered from the distant seas,
            a host<br/> of savage warriors had alarmed her walls,<br/> and hindered her from mourning
            for the dead.<br/></p>
         <p>Now Tereus, then the mighty king of Thrace,<br/> came to the aid
            of Athens as defense<br/> from that fierce horde; and there by his great
            deeds<br/> achieved a glorious fame. Since his descent<br/> was boasted from the mighty
            Gradivus,<br/> and he was gifted with enormous wealth,<br/>
            Pandion, king of Athens, <span class="hoverable female_character">gave to him<br/> in sacred wedlock his dear daughter,
               Procne.</span><span class="char_hover">virginal</span><br/></p>
         <p>But Juno, guardian of the sacred rites<br/> attended not, nor Hymenaeus,
            nor<br/> the Graces. But the Furies snatched up brands<br/> from burning funeral pyres, and
            brandished them<br/> as torches. They prepared the nuptial couch,—<br/> a boding owl flew
            over the bride's room,<br/> and then sat silently upon the roof.<br/></p>
         <p>With such bad omens Tereus married her,<br/> sad
            Procne, and those omens cast a gloom<br/>
            <span class="hoverable female_character">on all the household till the fateful
               birth<br/> of their first born</span><span class="char_hover">matronly</span>. All Thrace went wild with
            joy—<br/> and even they, rejoicing, blessed the Gods,<br/> when he, the little
            Itys, saw the light;<br/> and they ordained each year their
            wedding day,<br/> and every year the birthday of their child,<br/> should be observed with
            festival and song:<br/> so the sad veil of fate conceals from us<br/> our future
            woes.<br/></p>
         <p>Now Titan had drawn forth<br/> the changing seasons through five autumns, when,<br/> in
            gentle accents, Procne spoke these words:<br/>
            “My dearest husband, if you love me, let<br/> me visit
            my dear sister, or consent<br/> that she may come to us and promise her<br/> that she
            may soon return. If you will but<br/> permit me to enjoy her company<br/> my heart will
            bless you as I bless the Gods.”<br/></p>
         <p>At once the monarch ordered his long ships<br/> to launch upon the sea; and driven by
            sail,<br/> and hastened by the swiftly sweeping oars,<br/> they entered the deep port of
            Athens, where<br/> he made fair landing on the fortified<br/>
            Piraeus. There, when time was opportune<br/> to greet his father-in-law and
            shake his hand,<br/> they both exchanged their wishes for good health,<br/> and
            Tereus told the reason why he came.<br/></p>
         <p>He was relating all his wife's desire.<br/>
            <span class="hoverable female_character">Promising Philomela's safe
               return<br/> from a brief visit, when Philomela appeared<br/> rich in her
               costly raiment, yet more rich<br/> in charm and beauty, just as if a fair<br/> Dryad or
               Naiad should be so attired,<br/> appearing radiant,</span><span class="char_hover">virginal</span> from dark
            solitudes.<br/></p>
         <p>As if someone should kindle whitening corn<br/> or the dry leaves, or hay piled in a
            stack;<br/> so Tereus, when
            he saw <span class="hoverable female_character">the beautiful<br/> and blushing
               virgin</span><span class="char_hover">virginal</span>, was consumed with love.<br/></p>
         <p>Her modest beauty was a worthy cause<br/> of worthy
            love; but by his heritage,<br/> derived from a debasing clime,
            his love<br/> was base; and fires unholy burned within<br/> from his own lawless
            nature, just as fierce<br/> as are the habits of his evil
            race.<br/></p>
         <p>In the wild frenzy of his wicked heart,<br/> he
            thought he would corrupt her trusted maid,<br/> her tried attendants, and corrupt
            even<br/> her virtue with large presents:
            <span class="hoverable male_character">he would waste<br/> his kingdom in the effort.—He prepared<br/> to
               seize her at the risk of cruel war.<br/> And he would do or dare all things to feed<br/>
               his raging flame.—He could not brook delay.</span><span class="char_hover">cocky</span><br/></p>
         <p>With most impassioned words he begged for her,<br/> pretending he gave voice to
            Procne's hopes.—<br/> his own desire made him wax eloquent,<br/>
            as often as his words exceeded bounds,<br/> he pleaded he was uttering
            Procne's words.<br/></p>
         <p>His hypocritic eyes were filled with tears,<br/> as
            though they represented her desire—<br/> and, O you Gods above, what devious ways<br/>
            are harbored in the hearts of mortals! Through<br/> his villainous desire he gathered
            praise,<br/> and many lauded him for the great love<br/> he bore his
            wife.<br/></p>
         <p>And even Philomela<br/> desires her own undoing; and with fond<br/>
            embraces nestles to her father, while<br/> she pleads for his consent, that she may go<br/>
            to visit her dear sister.—Tereus viewed<br/> her
            pretty pleading, and in his hot heart,<br/> imagined he was then embracing her;<br/> and
            as he saw her kiss her father's lips,<br/> her arms around his neck, it seemed that
            each<br/> caress was his; and so his fire increased.<br/> He even wished he were her
            father; though,<br/> if it were so, his passion would no less<br/> be
            impious.—Overcome at last by these<br/> entreaties, her kind father gave
            consent.<br/> Greatly she joyed and thanked him for her own<br/> misfortune. She imagined a
            success,<br/> instead of all the sorrow that would come.<br/></p>
         <p>The day declining, little of his toil<br/> remained for Phoebus. Now his flaming
            steeds<br/> were beating with their hoofs the downward slope<br/> of high Olympus; and the
            regal feast<br/> was set before the guests, and flashing wine<br/> was poured in golden
            vessels, and the feast<br/> went merrily, until the satisfied<br/> assembly sought in gentle
            sleep their rest.<br/></p>
         <p>Not so, the love-hot Tereus, king of Thrace,<br/>
            who, sleepless, imaged in
            his doting mind<br/> the form of Philomela, recalled the shape<br/> of
            her fair hands, and in his memory<br/> reviewed her movements. And his flaming
            heart<br/> pictured her beauties yet unseen.—He fed<br/> his frenzy on itself, and
            could not sleep.<br/></p>
         <p>Fair broke the day; and now the ancient king,<br/>
            Pandion, took his son-in-law's right hand<br/> to bid farewell; and, as he
            wept,<br/> commended his dear daughter, Philomela,<br/> unto his
            guarding care. <span class="hoverable male_character">“And in your care,<br/> my son-in-law,</span><span class="char_hover">protector</span>
            <span class="hoverable female_character">I trust my daughter's
               health</span><span class="char_hover">protected</span>.<br/> Good reason, grounded on my love, compels<br/> my sad approval.
            You have begged for her,<br/> and both my daughters have persuaded me.<br/> Wherefore, I
            do entreat you and implore<br/> your honor, as I call upon the Gods,<br/> that you will
            ever shield her with the love<br/> of a kind father and return her safe,<br/> as soon as
            may be—my last comfort given<br/> to bless my doting age. And all delay<br/> will
            agitate and vex my failing heart.<br/></p>
         <p>“And, O my dearest daughter, <span class="hoverable _character">Philomela,<br/> if you have any love for me, return<br/> without
               too long delay and comfort me,<br/> lest I may grieve; for it is quite enough<br/>
               that I should suffer while your sister stays away.”</span><span class="char_hover">matronly</span><br/></p>
         <p>The old king made them promise, and he kissed<br/> his daughter, while he wept. Then did he
            join<br/> their hands in pledge of their fidelity,<br/> and, as he gave his blessing,
            cautioned them<br/> to kiss his absent daughter and her son<br/> for his dear sake. Then as
            he spoke a last<br/> farewell, his trembling voice was filled with sobs.<br/> And he could
            hardly speak;—for a great fear<br/> from some vague intuition of his mind,<br/> surged over
            him, and he was left forlorn.<br/></p>
         <p>So soon as Philomela was safe aboard<br/> the painted ship and as the
            sailors urged<br/> the swiftly gliding keel across the deep<br/> and the dim land fast-faded
            from their view,<br/> then Tereus, in exultant humor, thought,<br/>
            “Now all is well, the object of my love<br/> sails with
            me while the sailors ply the oars.”,<br/></p>
         <p>He scarcely could control his barbarous<br/>
            desire—with difficulty stayed his lust,<br/> he followed all her actions with hot
            eyes. —<br/> So, when the ravenous bird of Jupiter<br/> has caught
            with crooked talons the poor hare,<br/> and dropped it—ruthless,—in his lofty nest,<br/>
            where there is no escape, his cruel eyes<br/> gloat on the victim he anticipates.<br/></p>
         <p>And now, as Tereus reached his journey's end,<br/> they landed from the travel-wearied
            ship,<br/> safe on the shores of his own kingdom. Then<br/> he hastened with the frightened
            Philomela<br/> into most wild and silent solitudes<br/> of an old
            forest; where, concealed among<br/> deep thickets a forbidding old house stood:<br/>
            <span class="hoverable _character">there he immured the pale and trembling maid</span><span class="char_hover">virginal</span>,<br/>
            who, vainly in her fright, began to call<br/> upon her absent sister,—and her tears<br/>
            implored his pity. His obdurate mind<br/> could not be softened by such piteous cries;<br/>
            but even while her agonizing screams<br/> implored her sister's and her father's aid,<br/>
            and <span class="hoverable female_dia">while she vainly called upon the
               Gods,<br/> he overmastered her with brutal force.</span><span class="dia_hover">sp: philomela<br/>invo: gods</span>—<br/>
            </p>
         <p>The poor child trembled as a frightened lamb,<br/> which, just delivered from the frothing
            jaws<br/> of a gaunt wolf, dreads every moving twig.<br/> She trembled as a timid injured
            dove,<br/> (her feathers dripping with her own life-blood)<br/> that dreads the ravening
            talons of a hawk<br/> from which some fortune has delivered her.<br/></p>
         <p>But presently, as consciousness returned,<br/> she tore her streaming hair and beat her
            arms,<br/> and, stretching forth her hands in frenzied grief,<br/> cried out, <span class="hoverable female_character">“Oh,
               barbarous and brutal wretch!<br/> Unnatural monster of abhorrent deeds!<br/> Could
               not my anxious father's parting words,<br/> nor his foreboding tears restrain your
               lust?<br/> Have you no slight regard for your chaste wife,<br/> my dearest sister,
               and are you without<br/> all honor, so to spoil virginity <br/> now making me invade
               my sister's claim,<br/> you have befouled the sacred fount of life,—<br/> you are a
               lawless bond of double sin!</span><span class="char_hover">rage</span><br/></p>
         <p><span class="hoverable female_character">“Oh, this
               dark punishment was not my due!<br/> Come, finish with my murder your black
               deed,<br/> so nothing wicked may remain undone.<br/> But oh, if you had only
               slaughtered me<br/> before your criminal embrace befouled<br/> my purity, I should
               have had a shade<br/> entirely pure, and free from any stain!<br/> Oh, if there is a
               Majesty in Heaven,<br/> and if my ruin has not wrecked the world,<br/> then, you
               shall suffer for this grievous wrong<br/> and time shall hasten to avenge my
               wreck.</span><span class="char_hover">rage</span><br/></p>
         <p><span class="hoverable female_dia">“I shall declare your sin before the
               world,<br/> and publish my own shame to punish you!<br/> And if I'm prisoned in the
               solitudes,<br/> my voice will wake the echoes in the wood<br/> and move the conscious
               rocks. Hear me, O Heaven!<br/> And let my imprecations rouse the Gods—<br/> ah-h-h, if
               there can be a god in Heaven!”</span><span class="dia_hover">sp: philomela<br/>invo: gods</span><br/></p>
         <p><span class="hoverable male_character">Her cries aroused the dastard tyrant's wrath,<br/>
               and frightened him, lest ever his foul deed<br/> might shock his kingdom: and, roused at
               once<br/> by rage and guilty fear; he seized her hair,<br/> forced her weak arms against
               her back, and bound<br/> them fast with brazen chains, then drew his
               sword.</span><span class="char_hover">rage</span><br/></p>
         <p>When she first saw his sword above her head.<br/> Flashing and sharp, she wished only for
            death,<br/> and offered her bare throat: but while she screamed,<br/> and, struggling,
            called upon her father's name,<br/> he caught her tongue with pincers, pitiless,<br/></p>
         <p>A<span class="hoverable female_transform">nd cut it with his sword.—The mangled root<br/>
               still quivered, but the bleeding tongue itself,<br/> fell murmuring on the blood-stained
               floor. As the tail<br/> of a slain snake still writhes upon the ground,<br/> so did the
               throbbing tongue; and, while it died,<br/> moved up to her, as if to seek her
               feet.—<br/> And, it is said that after this foul crime,<br/> the monster violated her
               again.</span><span class="trans_hover">physical</span><br/></p>
         <p>And after these vile deeds, that wicked king<br/> returned to Procne, who, when
            she first met<br/> her brutal husband, anxiously inquired<br/> for tidings of her sister;
            but with sighs<br/> and tears, he told a false tale of her death,<br/> and with such woe
            that all believed it true.<br/></p>
         <p>Then Procne, full of lamentation, took<br/> her royal robe, bordered with purest
            gold,<br/> and putting it away, assumed instead<br/> garments of sable mourning; and she
            built<br/> a noble sepulchre, and offered there<br/> her pious gifts to an imagined
            shade;—<br/> lamenting the sad death of her who lived.<br/></p>
         <p>A year had passed by since that awful date—<br/> the sun had coursed the Zodiac's twelve
            signs.<br/> But what could Philomela hope or do?<br/>
            <span class="hoverable female_character">For like a jail the strong walls of the
               house<br/> were built of massive stone, and guards around<br/> prevented flight; and
               mutilated, she<br/> could not communicate with anyone<br/> to tell her injuries and
               tragic woe.<br/></span><span class="char_hover">despair</span></p>
         <p>But even in despair and utmost grief,<br/> there is an ingenuity which gives<br/> inventive
            genius to protect from harm:<br/> and now, the grief-distracted
            Philomela<br/> wove in a warp with purple marks and white,<br/> a
            story of the crime; and when 'twas done<br/> she gave it to her one attendant there<br/> and
            begged her by appropriate signs to take<br/> it secretly to Procne.
            She took the web,<br/> she carried it to Procne, with no thought<br/>
            of words or messages by art conveyed.<br/></p>
         <p><span class="hoverable female_character">The wife of that inhuman tyrant took<br/> the
               cloth, and after she unwrapped it saw<br/> and understood the mournful record sent.<br/>
               She pondered it in silence and her tongue<br/> could find no words to utter her
               despair;—<br/> her grief and frenzy were too great for tears.—<br/> In a mad rage her
               rapid mind counfounded<br/> the right and wrong—intent upon
               revenge.</span><span class="char_hover">rage</span><br/></p>
         <p>Since it was now the time of festival,<br/> when all the Thracian matrons celebrate<br/> the
            rites of Bacchus—every third year thus—<br/> night then was in their secret;
            and at night<br/> the slopes of Rhodope resounded loud<br/> with clashing of
            shrill cymbals. So, at night<br/> the frantic queen of Tereus left
            her home<br/> and, clothed according to the well known rites<br/> of Bacchus,
            hurried to the wilderness.<br/></p>
         <p>Her head was covered with the green vine leaves;<br/> and from her left side native deer skin
            hung;<br/> and on her shoulder rested a light spear.—<br/> so fashioned, <span class="hoverable female_character">the revengeful Procne rushed<br/> through the dark woods,
               attended by a host<br/> of screaming followers, and wild with rage,<br/> pretended it
               was Bacchus urged her forth.<br/></span><span class="char_hover">rage</span></p>
         <p>At last she reached the lonely building, where<br/> her sister,
            Philomela, was immured;<br/> and as she howled and shouted
            “Ee-woh-ee-e!”,<br/> She forced the massive doors; and having seized<br/> her sister,
            instantly concealed her face<br/> in ivy leaves, arrayed her in the trappings<br/> of
            Bacchanalian rites. When this was done,<br/> they rushed from there, demented, to the
            house<br/> where as the Queen of Tereus, Procne dwelt.<br/></p>
         <p><span class="hoverable female_character">When Philomela knew she had arrived<br/> at that
               accursed house, her countenance,<br/> though pale with grief, took on a ghastlier
               hue:<br/> and, wretched in her misery and fright,<br/> she shuddered in
               convulsions.</span><span class="char_hover">despair</span>—Procne took<br/> the symbols,
            Bacchanalian, from her then,<br/> and as she held her in a strict embrace<br/> unveiled her
            downcast head. But she refused<br/> to lift her eyes, and fixing her sad gaze<br/> on vacant
            space, she raised her hand, instead;<br/> as if in oath she called upon the Gods<br/> to
            witness truly she had done no wrong,<br/> but suffered a disgrace of violence.—<br/></p>
         <p><span class="hoverable female_character">Lo, Procne, wild with a consuming
               rage,<br/> cut short her sister's terror in these words,</span><span class="char_hover">rage</span><br/>
            “This is no time for weeping! awful deeds<br/> demand
            a great revenge—take up the sword,<br/> and any weapon fiercer than its edge!<br/> My
            breast is hardened to the worst of crime<br/> make haste with me! together let us
            put<br/> this palace to the torch!<br/></p>
         <p>“Come, <span class="hoverable female_character">let us
               maim,<br/> the beastly Tereus with revenging iron,<br/> cut out his
               tongue, and quench his cruel eyes,<br/> and hurl and burn him writhing in the
               flames!<br/> Or, shall we pierce him with a grisly blade,<br/> and let his black
               soul issue from deep wounds<br/> a thousand.—Slaughter him with every death<br/>
               imagined in the misery of hate!”</span><span class="char_hover">rage</span><br/></p>
         <p>While Procne still was raving out such words,<br/>
            Itys, her son, was hastening to his mother;<br/> and when she saw
            him, her revengeful eyes<br/> conceiving a dark punishment, she said,<br/>
            “Aha! here comes the image of his father!”<br/>
            She gave no other warning, but prepared<br/> to execute a horrible revenge.<br/></p>
         <p>But when the tender child came up to her,<br/> and called her “mother”, put his little arms<br/> around her neck, and when he smiled and
            kissed<br/> her often, gracious in his cunning ways,—<br/>
            <span class="hoverable female_character">again the instinct of true motherhood<br/>
               pulsed in her veins, and moved to pity, she<br/> began to weep in spite of her
               resolve.</span><span class="char_hover">matronly</span><br/></p>
         <p>Feeling the tender impulse of her love<br/> unnerving her, she turned her eyes from him<br/>
            and looked upon her sister, and from her<br/> glanced at her darling boy again. And so,<br/>
            while she was looking at them both, by turns,<br/> she said, “Why does the little one prevail<br/> with pretty words, while
            Philomela stands<br/> in silence always, with her tongue torn out?<br/>
            She cannot call her sister, whom he calls<br/> his mother! Oh, you daughter of
            Pandion,<br/> consider what a wretch your husband is!<br/> The wife of such a monster
            must be flint;<br/> compassion in her heart is but a crime.”<br/></p>
         <p>No more she hesitated, but as swift<br/> as the fierce tigress of the Ganges leaps,<br/>
            seizes the suckling offspring of the hind,<br/> and drags it through the forest to its
            lair;<br/> so, <span class="hoverable female_character">Procne seized and
               dragged the frightened boy<br/> to a most lonely section of the house;<br/> and there
               she put him to the cruel sword,<br/> while he, aware of his sad fate, stretched
               forth<br/> his little hands, and cried</span><span class="char_hover">rage</span>, “Ah, mother,—ah!—”<br/>
            <span class="hoverable female_character">And clung to her—clung to her, while she
               struck—<br/> her fixed eyes, maddened, glaring horribly—<br/> struck wildly, lopping off
               his tender limbs.<br/> But Philomela cut through his tender throat.</span><span class="char_hover">rage</span><br/></p>
         <p>Then they together, mangled his remains,<br/> still quivering with the remnant of his
            life,<br/> and boiled a part of him in steaming pots,<br/> that bubbled over with the dead
            child's blood,<br/> and roasted other parts on hissing spits.<br/></p>
         <p>And, after all was ready, Procne bade<br/> her husband,
            Tereus, to the loathsome feast,<br/> and with a false pretense of
            sacred rites,<br/> according to the custom of her land,<br/> by which, but one man may
            partake of it,<br/> she sent the servants from the banquet hall.—<br/>
            Tereus, majestic on his ancient throne<br/> high in imagined state,
            devoured his son,<br/> and gorged himself with flesh of his own flesh—<br/> and in his rage
            of gluttony called out<br/> for Itys to attend and share the feast!<br/></p>
         <p>Curst with a joy she could conceal no more,<br/> and eager to gloat over his distress,<br/>
            Procne cried out,<br/></p>
         <p>“Inside yourself, you have<br/> the thing that you are
            asking for!” — Amazed,<br/> he looked around and called his son again:—<br/></p>
         <p>that instant, <span class="hoverable female_character">Philomela sprang forth—her hair<br/>
               disordered, and all stained with blood of murder,<br/> unable then to speak, she hurled
               the head<br/> of Itys in his father's fear-struck face,<br/> and more than
               ever longed for fitting words.</span><span class="char_hover">rage</span><br/></p>
         <p>The Thracian <span class="hoverable male_character">Tereus overturned the table,<br/> and
               howling, called up from the Stygian pit,<br/> the viperous sisters. Tearing at his
               breast,<br/> in miserable efforts to disgorge<br/> the half-digested gobbets of his
               son,<br/> he called himself his own child's sepulchre,<br/> and wept the hot tears of a
               frenzied man.</span><span class="char_hover">rage</span><br/> Then with his sword he rushed at the two
            sisters.<br/></p>
         <p><span class="hoverable _transform">Fleeing from him, they seemed to rise on wings,<br/> and it was
               true, for they had changed to birds.<br/> Then Philomela, flitting to the woods,<br/>
               found refuge in the leaves: but Procne flew<br/> straight to the sheltering gables of a
               roof—<br/> and always, if you look, you can observe<br/> the brand of murder on the
               swallow's breast—<br/> red feathers from that day. And Tereus, swift<br/> in his great
               agitation, and his will<br/> to wreak a fierce revenge, himself is turned<br/> into a
               crested bird. His long, sharp beak<br/> is given him instead of a long sword,<br/> and
               so, because his beak is long and sharp,<br/> he rightly bears the name of
               Hoopoe.</span><span class="trans_hover">physical</span><br/></p>
      </div>
      <div class="stick"><span class="tag">Tag</span><p class="collapse"><strong>Male:</strong></p><input type="checkbox"/><span class="male_character">descriptors</span><br/><input type="checkbox"/><span class="male_dia">dialogue</span><br/><input type="checkbox"/><span class="male_transform">transformations</span><br/><p class="collapse"><strong>Female:</strong></p><input type="checkbox"/><span class="female_character">descriptors</span><br/><input type="checkbox"/><span class="female_dia">dialogue</span><br/><input type="checkbox"/><span class="female_transform">transformations</span><br/><p class="collapse"><strong>Non-Binary:</strong></p><input type="checkbox"/><span class="nonbinary_character">descriptors</span><br/><input type="checkbox"/><span class="nonbinary_dia">dialogue</span><br/><input type="checkbox"/><span class="nonbinary_transform">transformations</span></div>
   </body>
</html>