<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
   <head>
      <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="readingview.css"/>
      <title>Myth</title>
   </head>
   <body>
      <h1><span class="myth-label">Myth of:</span><br/>SCYLLA TRANSFORMED TO A ROCK</h1>
      <div class="text">
         <h2>Text</h2><strong> Scylla et Circe. </strong><p>Now the Euboean dweller in great waves,<br/>
            Glaucus, had left behind the crest of
            Aetna,<br/> raised upward from a giant's head; and left<br/> the
            Cyclops' fields, that never had been torn<br/> by
            harrow or by plough and never were<br/> indebted to the toil of oxen yoked;<br/> left
            Zancle, also, and the opposite walls<br/> of Rhegium, and
            the sea, abundant cause<br/> of shipwreck, which confined with double shores<br/> bounds the
            Ausonian and Sicilian lands.<br/></p>
         <p>All these behind him, Glaucus, swimming on<br/> with his
            huge hands through those Tyrrhenian seas,<br/> drew near the hills so rich in magic
            herbs<br/> and halls of Circe, daughter of the
            Sun,—<br/> halls filled with men in guise of animals.<br/> After due salutations had been
            given—<br/> received by her as kindly—,Glaucus
            said,<br/></p>
         <p><span class="hoverable male_dia">“You as a goddess, certainly should
               have<br/> compassion upon me, a god; for you<br/> alone (if I am worthy of it) can<br/>
               relieve my passion. What the power of herbs<br/> can be, Titania, none knows more than I,<br/> for by their power I was myself
               transformed.<br/> To make the cause of my strange madness known,<br/> I have found
               Scylla on Italian shores,<br/> directly
               opposite Messenian walls.</span><span class="dia_hover">sp: Glaucus<br/>invo: Circe</span><br/></p>
         <p><span class="hoverable male_dia">“It shames me to recount my promises,<br/>
               entreaties, and caresses, and at last<br/> rejection of my suit. If you have known<br/>
               a power of incantation, I implore<br/> you now repeat that incantation here,<br/> with
               sacred lips—If herbs have greater power,<br/> use the tried power of herbs. But I would
               not<br/> request a cure—the healing of this wound.<br/> Much better than an end of pain,
               let her<br/> share, and feel with me my impassioned flame.”</span><span class="dia_hover">sp: Glaucus<br/>invo: Circe</span><br/></p>
         <p>But Circe was more quick than any other<br/> to burn
            with passion's flame. It may have been<br/> her nature or it may have been the work<br/> of
            Venus, angry at her tattling sire.<br/></p>
         <p><span class="hoverable female_dia">“You might do better,” she replied,
               “to court<br/> one who is willing, one who
               wants your love,<br/> and feels a like desire. You did deserve<br/> to win her love,
               yes, to be wooed yourself.<br/> In fact you might be. <span class="hoverable female_character">If you give some hope,<br/> you have my word, you shall indeed
                  be wooed.<br/> That you may have no doubt, and so retain<br/> all confidence in
                  your attraction's power—<br/> behold! I am a goddess, and I am<br/> the daughter
                  also, of the radiant Sun!<br/> And I who am so potent with my charms,<br/> and I
                  who am so potent with my herbs,<br/> wish only to be yours.</span><span class="char_hover">cocky</span> Despise
               her who<br/> despises you, and her who is attached<br/> by one act offer each her
               just reward.”</span><span class="dia_hover">sp: Circe<br/>invo: Glaucus</span><br/></p>
         <p>But Glaucus answered her attempt of love,<br/>
            “The trees will sooner grow in ocean waves,<br/> than I
            shall change my love for graceful! Scylla.”<br/></p>
         <p><span class="hoverable female_character">The goddess in her jealous rage could not<br/>
               and would not injure him, whom she still loved,<br/> but turned her wrath upon the one
               preferred.</span><span class="char_hover">jealous</span><br/> She bruised immediately the many herbs<br/> most infamous
            for horrid juices, which,<br/> when bruised, she mingled with most artful care<br/> and
            incantations given by Hecate.<br/> Then, clothed in
            azure vestments, she passed through<br/> her troop of fawning savage animals,<br/> and
            issued from the center of her hall.<br/> Pacing from there to Rhegium,
            opposite<br/> the dangerous rocks of Zancle, she at once<br/> entered the
            tossed waves boiling up with tides:<br/> on these as if she walked on the firm shore,<br/>
            she set her feet and, hastening on dry shod,<br/> she skimmed along the surface of the
            deep.<br/></p>
         <p>Not far away there was an inlet curved,<br/> round as a bent bow, which was often used<br/>
            by Scylla as a favorite retreat.<br/> There, she
            withdrew from heat of sea and sky<br/> when in the zenith blazed the unclouded sun<br/> and
            cast the shortest shadows on the ground.<br/>
            Circe infected it before that hour,<br/></p>
         <p>polluting it with monster-breeding drugs.<br/> She sprinkled juices over it, distilled<br/>
            from an obnoxious root, and thrice times nine<br/> she muttered over it with magic
            lips,<br/> her most mysterious charm involved in words<br/> of strangest import and of
            dubious thought.<br/></p>
         <p>Scylla came there and waded in waist deep,<br/> then
            saw her loins defiled with barking shapes.<br/> Believing they could be no part of her,<br/>
            she ran and tried to drive them back and feared<br/> the boisterous canine jaws. But what
            she fled<br/> she carried with her. And, feeling for her thighs,<br/> her legs, and feet,
            she found Cerberian jaws<br/> instead. She rises from a rage of dogs,<br/> and shaggy backs
            encircle her shortened loins.<br/></p>
         <p>The lover Glaucus wept. He fled the embrace<br/> of
            Circe and her hostile power of herbs<br/> and
            magic spells. But Scylla did not leave<br/> the place
            of her disaster; and, as soon<br/> as she had opportunity, for hate<br/> of Circe, she robbed Ulysses of his men.<br/>
            <span class="hoverable female_transform">She would have wrecked the Trojan ships, if
               she<br/> had not been changed beforehand to a rock</span><span class="trans_hover">physical</span><br/> which to this day
            reveals a craggy rim.<br/> And even the rock awakes the sailors' dread.<br/></p>
      </div>
      <div class="stick"><span class="tag">Tag</span><p class="collapse"><strong>Male:</strong></p><input type="checkbox"/><span class="male_character">descriptors</span><br/><input type="checkbox"/><span class="male_dia">dialogue</span><br/><input type="checkbox"/><span class="male_transform">transformations</span><br/><p class="collapse"><strong>Female:</strong></p><input type="checkbox"/><span class="female_character">descriptors</span><br/><input type="checkbox"/><span class="female_dia">dialogue</span><br/><input type="checkbox"/><span class="female_transform">transformations</span><br/><p class="collapse"><strong>Non-Binary:</strong></p><input type="checkbox"/><span class="nonbinary_character">descriptors</span><br/><input type="checkbox"/><span class="nonbinary_dia">dialogue</span><br/><input type="checkbox"/><span class="nonbinary_transform">transformations</span></div>
   </body>
</html>