<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
   <head>
      <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="readingview.css"/>
      <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="ovid.css"/><script type="text/javascript" src="readingview.js"></script><title>Reading View</title>
   </head>
   <body><!--#include virtual="menu.xhtml" -->
      <table>
         <tr>
            <td><a href="ARACHNE-AND-MINERVA-OVID.xhtml">Arachne and Minerva</a></td>
            <td><a href="Caeneus.xhtml">Caeneus</a></td>
            <td><a href="CERES-AND-PROSERPINA-OVID.xhtml">Ceres and Proserpina</a></td>
            <td><a href="Dryope.xhtml">Dryope</a></td>
            <td><a href="DIANA-AND-ACTEON-OVID.xhtml">Diana and Actaeon</a></td>
            <td><a href="Hercules-and-Achelous.xhtml">Hercules and Achelous</a></td>
            <td><a href="ECHO-AND-NARCISSUS-OVID.xhtml">Echo and Narcissus</a></td>
         </tr>
         <tr>
            <td><a href="HERMAPHRODITIS-OVID-XML.xhtml">Hermaphroditus</a></td>
            <td><a href="JASON-AND-MEDEA-OVID.xhtml">Jason and Medea</a></td>
            <td><a href="Iphis.xhtml">Iphis and Ianthe</a></td>
            <td><a href="PROCNE-AND-PHILOMELA-OVID.xhtml">Tereus and Philomela</a></td>
            <td><a href="KING-MINOS-AND-SCYLLA.xhtml">Minos and Scylla</a></td>
            <td><a href="Scylla-et-Circe.xhtml">Scylla and Circe</a></td>
            <td><a href="THE-DAUGHTERS-OF-MINYAS-OVID.xhtml">Daughters of Minyas</a></td>
         </tr>
      </table>
      <h1><span class="myth-label">Myth:</span><br/>THE DAUGHTERS OF KING MINYAS TRANSFORMED TO BATS</h1>
      <p class="highlightguide"><strong>Tip:</strong> Hover over <span class="orangeHighlight">highlighted text</span> to reveal more information about each element!</p>
      <div class="text">
         <h2>Text</h2><strong>Minyeides</strong><p>
            Alcithoe, daughter of 
            King Minyas,<br/> consents not to the orgies of the God;<br/> denies that
            Bacchus is the son of Jove,<br/> and her two sisters join her
            in that crime.<br/></p>
         <p>'Twas festal-day when matrons and their maids,<br/> keeping it sacred, had forbade all
            toil.—<br/> And having draped their bosoms with wild skins,<br/> they loosed their long hair
            for the sacred wreaths,<br/> and took the leafy thyrsus in their hands;—<br/> for so the
            priest commanded them. Austere<br/> the wrath of Bacchus if his power be
            scorned.<br/></p>
         <p>Mothers and youthful brides obeyed the priest;<br/> and putting by their wickers and their
            webs,<br/> dropt their unfinished toils to offer up<br/> frankincense to the God; invoking
            him<br/> with many names:—<span class="hoverable female_dia">“O Bacchus! O
               Twice-born!<br/> O Fire-begot! Thou only child Twice-mothered!<br/> God of all those who
               plant the luscious grape!<br/> O Liber!” All these names and many
               more,<br/> for ages known—throughout the lands of Greece.</span><span class="dia_hover">sp: <br/>invo: bacchus</span><br/></p>
         <p><span class="hoverable female_dia">“Thy youth is not consumed by wasting time;<br/> and lo,
               thou art an ever-youthful boy,<br/> most beautiful of all the Gods of Heaven,<br/>
               <span class="hoverable non-binary_character">smooth as a virgin </span><span class="char_hover">virginal</span>when
               thy horns are hid.—<br/> The distant east to tawny India's clime,<br/> where rolls
               remotest Ganges to the sea,<br/> was conquered by thy might.—O Most-revered!<br/> Thou
               didst destroy the doubting Pentheus,<br/> and hurled the sailors' bodies in
               the deep,<br/> and smote Lycurgus, wielder of the ax.</span><span class="dia_hover">sp: <br/>invo: bacchus</span><br/></p>
         <p><span class="hoverable female_dia">“And thou dost guide thy lynxes, double-yoked,<br/> with
               showy harness.—Satyrs follow thee;<br/> and Bacchanals, and
               old Silenus, drunk,<br/> unsteady on his staff; jolting so rough<br/> on
               his small back-bent ass; and all the way<br/> resounds a youthful clamour; and the
               screams<br/> of women! and the noise of tambourines!<br/> And the hollow cymbals! and
               the boxwood flutes,—<br/> fitted with measured holes.—Thou art implored<br/> by all
               Ismenian women to appear<br/> peaceful and mild; and they perform thy
               rites.”</span><span class="dia_hover">sp: <br/>invo: bacchus</span><br/></p>
         <p>Only the daughters of King Minyas<br/> are carding wool
            within their fastened doors,<br/> or twisting with their thumbs the fleecy yarn,<br/> or
            working at the web. So they corrupt<br/> the sacred festival with needless toil,<br/>
            keeping their hand-maids busy at the work.<br/></p>
         <p>And one of them, while drawing out the thread<br/> with nimble thumb, anon began to speak;<br/>
            “While others loiter and frequent these rites<br/> fantastic, we the
            wards of Pallas, much<br/> to be preferred, by speaking novel thoughts<br/>
            may lighten labour. Let us each in turn,<br/> relate to an attentive audience,<br/> a
            novel tale; and so the hours may glide.”<br/> it pleased her sisters, and they
            ordered her<br/> to tell the story that she loved the most.<br/></p>
         <p>So, as she counted in her well-stored mind<br/> the many tales she knew, first doubted
            she<br/> whether to tell the tale of Derceto,—<br/> that Babylonian, who, aver
            the tribes<br/> of Palestine, in limpid ponds yet lives,—<br/>
            <span class="hoverable female_transform">her body changed, and scales upon her
               limbs</span><span class="trans_hover">physical</span>;<br/> or how her daughter, <span class="hoverable female_transform">having taken wings</span><span class="trans_hover">physical</span>,<br/> passed her declining years in whitened
            towers.<br/> Or should she tell of Nais, who with herbs,<br/> too potent, into
            fishes had transformed<br/> the bodies of her lovers, till she met<br/> herself the same sad
            fate; or of that tree<br/> which sometime bore white fruit, but now is changed<br/> and
            darkened by the blood that stained its roots.—<br/> Pleased with the novelty of this, at
            once<br/> she tells the tale of Pyramus and Thisbe;—<br/> and
            swiftly as she told it unto them,<br/> the fleecy wool was twisted into threads.<br/></p>
      </div>
      <div class="stick"><span class="tag">Tag</span><p class="removespace"><strong>Male:</strong></p><input type="checkbox" value="male_character"/><span class="male_character">descriptors</span><br/><input type="checkbox" value="male_dia"/><span class="male_dia">dialogue</span><br/><input type="checkbox" value="male_transform"/><span class="male_transform">transformations</span><br/><p class="removespace"><strong>Female:</strong></p><input type="checkbox" value="female_character"/><span class="female_character">descriptors</span><br/><input type="checkbox" value="female_dia"/><span class="female_dia">dialogue</span><br/><input type="checkbox" value="female_transform"/><span class="female_transform">transformations</span><br/><p class="removespace"><strong>Non-Binary:</strong></p><input type="checkbox" value="nonbinary_character"/><span class="nonbinary_character">descriptors</span><br/><input type="checkbox" value="nonbinary_dia"/><span class="nonbinary_dia">dialogue</span><br/><input type="checkbox" value="nonbinary_transform"/><span class="nonbinary_transform">transformations</span></div>
   </body>
</html>