<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?><!DOCTYPE html><html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
   <head>
      <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="readingview.css"/>
      <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="ovid.css"/><script type="text/javascript" src="readingview.js"></script><title>Myth</title>
      <!--#include virtual="menu.xhtml" --></head>
   <body>
      <div class="image_title">
         <h2 class="projectTitle">Portrayals of Divinity in The Metamorphoses</h2>
      </div>
      <div class="mainNavbar">
         <ul>
            <li><a class="main" href="/">Home</a></li>
            <li><a class="main" href="ovic-meme.png">About</a></li>
            <li><a class="main" href="ovic-meme.png">Texts</a></li>
            <li><a class="main" href="character_page.xhtml">Characters</a></li>
            <li><a class="main" href="ovic-meme.png">Methodology</a></li>
            <li><a class="main" href="ovic-meme.png">Conclusions</a></li>
         </ul>
      </div>
      <h1><span class="myth-label">Myth of:</span><br/>KING MINOS AND SCYLLA</h1>
      <div class="text">
         <h2>Text</h2><strong>Nisus et Scylla. </strong><p>Now Lucifer unveiled the glorious day,<br/> and as the
            session of the night dissolved,<br/> the cool east wind declined, and vapors wreathed<br/>
            the moistened valleys. Veering to the south<br/> the welcome wind gave passage to the
            sons<br/> of Aeacus, and wafted Cephalus<br/> on his returning
            way, propitious; where<br/> before the wonted hour, they entered port.<br/>
            </p>
         <p>King Minos, while the fair wind moved their ship,<br/>
            was laying waste the land of Megara.<br/> He gathered a great army round the
            walls<br/> built by Alcathous, where reigned in splendor<br/>
            <span class="hoverable male_character">King Nisus—mighty and renowned in war—<br/> upon the
               center of whose hoary head<br/> a lock of purple hair was growing.
               —Its<br/> proved virtue gave protection to his
               throne.</span><span class="char_hover">protector</span><br/></p>
         <p>Six times the horns of rising Phoebe grew,<br/> and still the changing fortune
            of the war<br/> was in suspense; so, Victory day by day<br/> between them
            hovered on uncertain wings.<br/></p>
         <p>Within that city was a regal tower<br/> on tuneful walls; where once Apollo
            laid<br/> his golden harp; and in the throbbing stone<br/> the sounds remained. And there,
            in times of peace<br/> the daughter of King Nisus loved
            to mount<br/> the walls and strike the sounding stone with pebbles:<br/> so, when the war
            began, she often viewed<br/> the dreadful contest from that height;<br/> until, so long the
            hostile camp remained,<br/> she had become acquainted with the names,<br/> and knew the
            habits, horses and the arms<br/> of many a chief, and could discern the signs<br/> of their
            Cydonean quivers.<br/></p>
         <p>More than all,<br/> the features of King Minos were
            engraved<br/> upon the tablets of her mind. And
            when<br/> he wore his helmet, crested with gay plumes,<br/> she deemed it glorious; when
            he held his shield<br/> shining with gold, no other seemed so grand;<br/> and when he
            poised to hurl the tough spear home,<br/> she praised his skill and strength; and when
            he bent<br/> his curving bow with arrow on the cord,<br/> she pictured him as
            Phoebus taking aim,—<br/> but when, arrayed in purple, and upon<br/>
            the back of his white war horse, proudly decked<br/> with richly broidered housings, he
            reined in<br/> the nervous steed, and took his helmet off,<br/> showing his fearless
            features, then the maid,<br/> daughter of Nisus, could control herself<br/>
            no longer; and a frenzy seized her mind.<br/></p>
         <p>She called the javelin happy which he touched,<br/> and blessed were the reins within his
            hand.<br/></p>
         <p>She had an impulse to direct her steps,<br/>
            <span class="hoverable female_character">a tender virgin</span><span class="char_hover">virginal</span>, through the
            hostile ranks,<br/> or cast her body from the topmost towers<br/> into the Gnossian
            camp. She had a wild<br/> desire to open to the
            enemy<br/> the heavy brass-bound gates, or anything<br/> that Minos could desire.<br/></p>
         <p>And as she sat<br/> beholding the white tents, <span class="hoverable female_character">she cried, “Alas!<br/> Should I rejoice or grieve
               to see this war?<br/> I grieve that Minos is the enemy<br/> of her who
               loves him; but unless the war<br/> had brought him, how could he be known to
               me?<br/> But should he take me for a hostage? That<br/> might end the war—a pledge
               of peace, he might<br/> keep me for his companion.</span><span class="char_hover">despair</span><br/></p>
         <p>“O, supreme<br/> of mankind! she who bore you must have
            been<br/> as beautiful as you are; ample cause<br/> for Jove to lose his
            heart.<br/></p>
         <p>“O, happy hour!<br/> If moving upon wings through
            yielding air,<br/> I could alight within the hostile camp<br/> in front of
            Minos, and declare to him<br/> my name and passion!<br/></p>
         <p>“Then would I implore<br/> what dowry he could wish,
            and would provide<br/> whatever he might ask, except alone<br/> the city of my father.
            Perish all<br/> my secret hopes before one act of mine<br/> should offer treason to
            accomplish it.<br/> And yet, the kindness of a conqueror<br/> has often proved a
            blessing, manifest<br/> to those who were defeated. Certainly<br/> the war he carries on
            is justified<br/> by his slain son.<br/></p>
         <p>“He is a mighty king,<br/> thrice strengthened in his
            cause. Undoubtedly<br/> we shall be conquered, and, if such a fate<br/> awaits our city,
            why should he by force<br/> instead of my
            consuming love, prevail<br/> to open the strong gates? Without delay<br/>
            and dreadful slaughter, it is best for him<br/> to conquer and decide this savage
            war.<br/></p>
         <p>“Ah, Minos, how I
            fear the bitter fate<br/> should any warrior hurl his cruel spear<br/> and pierce you by
            mischance, for surely none<br/> can be so hardened to transfix your breast<br/> with
            purpose known.”<br/></p>
         <p>Oh, let her love prevail<br/> to open for his army the
            great gates.<br/> Only the thought of it, has filled her soul;<br/> she is
            determined to deliver up<br/> her country as a dowry with herself,<br/> and so decide the
            war! But what avails<br/> this idle talk.<br/></p>
         <p>“A guard surrounds the gates,<br/> my father keeps the
            keys, and <span class="hoverable female_character">he alone<br/> is my obstruction,
               and the innocent<br/> account of my despair.</span><span class="char_hover">despair</span> Would to the Gods<br/> I
            had no father! Is not man the God<br/> of his own fortune, though his idle prayers<br/>
            avail not to compel his destiny?<br/></p>
         <p>“Another woman
            crazed with passionate desires,<br/> which now inflame me, would not hesitate,<br/>
            but with a fierce abandon would destroy<br/> whatever checked her passion. Who is
            there<br/> with love to equal mine? I dare to go<br/> through flames and swords; but
            swords and flames<br/> are not now needed, for I only need<br/> my royal father's
            lock of purple hair.<br/> More precious than fine gold, it has a power<br/> to give
            my heart all that it may desire.”<br/></p>
         <p>While Scylla said this, night that heals our
            cares<br/> came on, and she grew bolder in the dark.<br/> And now it is the late and silent
            hour<br/> when slumber takes possession of the breast.<br/> Outwearied with the cares of
            busy day;<br/> then as her father slept, with stealthy tread<br/> she entered his abode, and
            there despoiled,<br/> and clipped his fatal lock of purple hair.<br/></p>
         <p>Concealing in her bosom the sad prize<br/> of crime degenerate, she at once went forth<br/> a
            gate unguarded, and with shameless haste<br/> sped through the hostile army to the tent<br/>
            of Minos, whom, astonished, she addressed:<br/></p>
         <p>“Only my love has led me to this deed.<br/> The
            daughter of King Nisus, I am called<br/> the maiden Scylla. Unto you I come<br/> and offer up a power that
            will prevail<br/> against my country, and I stipulate<br/> no recompense except
            yourself. Take then<br/> this purple hair, a token of my love.—<br/> Deem it not lightly
            as a lock of hair<br/> held idly forth to you; it is in truth<br/> my father's
            life.”And as she spoke<br/> she held out in
            her guilty hand the prize,<br/> and begged him to accept it with her
            love.<br/></p>
         <p>Shocked at the thought of such a heinous crime,<br/>
            Minos refused, and said, <span class="hoverable male_dia">“O
               execrable thing!<br/>
               <span class="hoverable male_character">Despised abomination of our time!<br/> May all
                  the Gods forever banish you<br/> from their wide universe, and may the earth<br/>
                  and the deep ocean be denied to you!</span><span class="char_hover">rage</span><br/> So great a monster shall not
               be allowed<br/> to desecrate the sacred Isle of Crete,<br/> where
               Jupiter was born.”</span><span class="dia_hover">sp: Minos<br/>invo: Syclla</span>So Minos
            spoke.<br/></p>
         <p>Nevertheless he conquered Megara,<br/> (so aided by the damsel's wicked
            deed)<br/> and as a just and mighty king imposed<br/> his own conditions on the vanquished
            land.<br/></p>
         <p>He ordered his great fleet to tarry not;<br/> the hawsers were let loose, and the long
            oars<br/> quickly propelled his brazen-pointed ships.—<br/></p>
         <p>When Scyllasaw them launching forth,<br/> observed
            them sailing on the mighty deep,<br/> she called with vain entreaties; <span class="hoverable female_character">but at last,<br/> aware the prince ignored her and
               refused<br/> to recompense her wickedness, enraged,<br/> and raving, she held up her
               impious hands,<br/> her long hair streaming on the wind,</span><span class="char_hover">rage</span> — and
            said:<br/></p>
         <p><span class="hoverable female_dia">“Oh, wherefore have you flown, and left
               behind<br/> the author of your glory. Oh, wretch! wretch<br/> to whom I offered up my
               native land,<br/> and sacrificed my father! Where have you<br/> now flown, ungrateful
               man whose victory<br/> is both my crime and virtue? And the gift<br/> presented to you,
               and my passion,<br/> have these not moved you? All my love and hope<br/> in you
               alone!</span><span class="dia_hover">sp: Scylla<br/>invo: Minos</span><br/></p>
         <p><span class="hoverable female_dia">“Forsaken by my prince,<br/> shall I
               return to my defeated land?<br/> If never ruined it would shut its walls<br/> against
               me.—Shall I seek my father's face<br/> whom I delivered to all-conquering arms?<br/> My
               fellow-citizens despise my name;<br/> my friends and neighbors hate me; I have shut<br/>
               the world against me, only in the hope<br/> that Crete would surely welcome
               me;—and now,<br/> he has forbidden me.</span><span class="dia_hover">sp: Scylla<br/>invo: Minos</span><br/>
            </p>
         <p><span class="hoverable female_dia">“And is it so<br/> I am requited by this
               thankless wretch!<br/>
               Europa could not be your mother! Spawn<br/> of cruel Syrtis!
               Savage cub of fierce<br/> Armenian tigress;—or Charybdis, tossed<br/> by
               the wild South-wind begot you! Can you be<br/> the son of Jupiter? Your
               mother was<br/> not ever tricked by the false semblance<br/> of a bull. <span class="hoverable female_character">All that story of your birth<br/> is false! You are
                  the offspring of a bull<br/> as fierce as you are!</span><span class="char_hover">rage</span></span><span class="dia_hover">sp: Scylla<br/>invo: Minos</span><br/></p>
         <p><span class="hoverable female_dia">“<span class="hoverable female_character">Let your vengeance fall<br/> upon me, O my father
                  Nisus, let<br/> the ruined city I betrayed rejoice<br/> at my
                  misfortunes—richly merited—<br/> destroy me, you whom I have ruined;—I<br/> should
                  perish for my crimes!</span><span class="char_hover">despair</span> But why should you,<br/> who conquered by my
               crime, abandon me?<br/> The treason to my father and my land<br/> becomes an act of
               kindness in your cause.</span><span class="dia_hover">sp: Scylla<br/>invo: Minos</span><br/></p>
         <p><span class="hoverable female_dia">“That woman is a worthy mate for you<br/>
               who hid in wood deceived the raging bull,<br/> and bore to him the infamy of
               Crete.<br/> I do not wonder that Pasiphae<br/> preferred
               the bull to you, more savage than<br/> the wildest beast. Alas, alas for
               me!</span><span class="dia_hover">sp: Scylla<br/>invo: Minos</span><br/></p>
         <p><span class="hoverable female_dia">“Do my complaints reach your unwilling
               ears?<br/> Or do the same winds waft away my words<br/> that blow upon your ships,
               ungrateful man?—<br/> Ah, wretched that I am, he takes delight<br/> in hastening from
               me. The deep waves resound<br/> as smitten by the oars, his ship departs;<br/> and I am
               lost and even my native land<br/> is fading from his sight.</span><span class="dia_hover">sp: Scylla<br/>invo: Minos</span><br/></p>
         <p><span class="hoverable female_dia">“Oh heart of flint!<br/> you shall not
               prosper in your cruelty,<br/> and you shall not forget my sacrifice;<br/> in spite of
               everything I follow you!<br/> I'll grasp the curving stern of your swift ship,<br/> and
               I will follow through unending seas.”</span><span class="dia_hover">sp: Scylla<br/>invo: Minos</span><br/></p>
         <p>And as she spoke, she leaped into the waves,<br/> and followed the receding ships—for
            strength<br/> from passion came to her. And soon she clung<br/> unwelcome, to the sailing
            Gnossian ship.<br/></p>
         <p><span class="hoverable male_transform">Meanwhile, the Gods had changed her father's
               form<br/> and now he hovered over the salt deep,<br/> a hawk with tawny
               wings.</span><span class="trans_hover">physical</span> So when he saw<br/> his daughter clinging to the hostile ship<br/> he
            would have torn her with his rending beak;—<br/> he darted towards her through the yielding
            air.<br/> In terror she let go, but as she fell<br/> the light air held her from the ocean
            spray;<br/> her feather-weight supported by the breeze;<br/>
            <span class="hoverable female_transform">she spread her wings, and changed into a
               bird.</span><span class="trans_hover">physical</span><br/> They called her “Ciris” when she cut the wind,<br/>
            and “Ciris”—cut-the-lock—remains her name.<br/></p>
      </div>
      <div class="stick"><span class="tag">Tag</span><p class="collapse"><strong>Male:</strong></p><input type="checkbox" value="male_character"/><span class="male_character">descriptors</span><br/><input type="checkbox" value="male_dia"/><span class="male_dia">dialogue</span><br/><input type="checkbox" value="male_transform"/><span class="male_transform">transformations</span><br/><p class="collapse"><strong>Female:</strong></p><input type="checkbox" value="female_character"/><span class="female_character">descriptors</span><br/><input type="checkbox" value="female_dia"/><span class="female_dia">dialogue</span><br/><input type="checkbox" value="female_transform"/><span class="female_transform">transformations</span><br/><p class="collapse"><strong>Non-Binary:</strong></p><input type="checkbox" value="nonbinary_character"/><span class="nonbinary_character">descriptors</span><br/><input type="checkbox" value="nonbinary_dia"/><span class="nonbinary_dia">dialogue</span><br/><input type="checkbox" value="nonbinary_transform"/><span class="nonbinary_transform">transformations</span></div>
      <div class="stick2"><span class="tag">Myths</span><ul>
            <li><a href="Dryope.xhtml">Dryope</a></li><br/><li><a href="Caeneus.xhtml">Caeneus</a></li><br/><li><a href="CERES-AND-PROSERPINA-OVID.xhtml">Ceres and Proserpina</a></li><br/><li><a href="DIANA-AND-ACTEON-OVID.xhtml">Diana and Acteon</a></li>
         </ul>
      </div>
   </body>
</html>